although bernardo bertolucci's besieged doesn't fit into any standard genre , perhaps that's the closest way to peg it . it is a romance , albeit a highly tentative one , and it's based on a mystery , although one that's transparently obvious . as a film overflowing with music and containing almost no dialog , it might be considered a musical , although the leads in this 2-person drama don't sing . this surprising image only a few minutes into the film leads us to believe that the picture may go for maximum shock , but , quite the contrary , the film is so placid it will likely be sleep inducing for those who don't like its purposely oblique storytelling . with its strong sense of place and the importance it places on visual narration , the picture has the effect of a haunting trance . the only recent picture that comes close in tone to it is three seasons , which is slightly better . david thewlis , best known for avant-garde work under director mike leigh's tutelage , plays mr . kinsky in a performance that keeps his emotions in complete check , save a couple of scenes . the audience can figure out what is happening immediately , perhaps even before it happens . this is all of no consequence . one can either enjoy the movie for its music and images , or one can't enjoy it at all . the african folk melodies and songs are interspersed with lush piano sonatas . every few minutes someone says something briefly , and then the music resumes . the camerawork and editing are other joys or distractions , depending on your inclination . points are emphasized , not in words , but by jump cuts , fast zooms , and slow motion . a peaceful and beautiful picture , it does have its flaws . one would expect the movie to burst with sexual tension , but , with a couple of exceptions , bertolucci seems oblivious to the possibilities . the other problem with the movie is its length . it would have made a perfect 30-minute short film , but , as a full-length motion picture , it feels stretched almost to the breaking point . the film is in english with some dialog in italian with english subtitles . it is rated r for brief nudity and sexuality and would be fine for teenagers . 
" i don't know , " he replies with his boyish grin . " i've never looked . " can't be a world-famous playboy if your mojo is not working . even a huge clump of chest hair two inches thick isn't enough to wow the women if your mojo is missing . once again myers , who shares the writing credits with michael mccullers , has clearly put enormous thought and effort into the design of every sight gag and every snippet of dialog in the movie . the first austin powers film was a bit too cluttered and hurried , as if myers wanted to pack it with every joke imaginable . this second one goes down a bit easier since it is the more relaxed and good-natured of the two . this time myers seems more confident of his abilities so he gives his picture more room to breathe . the good-spirited movie has great fun ripping off a host of other pictures , especially bond films . the names of the characters , ? la bond , are a particularly enjoyable source of mirth . another character's name is robin swallows , but her maiden name was spits . you can probably guess where the writers go with that . full of self-deprecating humor , the movie is never happier than when it is making fun of itself . and if you're tired of all those ridiculously blatant product placements , the movie parodies the most hyped company in the movies today , starbucks . the plot is actually more complicated than this , and austin makes fun of its logical flaws . myers also plays dr . evil , as well as a couple of other hard to spot roles . as austin's fellow spy , she provides a playfulness and an innocence that lightens up the story , which has a tendency to go too much over the top . the sexual chemistry between the two leads is delicious and genuine . ( without giving too much away , let's just say that austin spends most of the picture as a bachelor . ) the dialog has little gems of wit . other lines make little sense but myers delivers them so confidently , they work anyway . some of the best bits in the film are visual . the camera periodically cuts to the inside of the tent so we can see that nothing unnatural is happening . even knowing how the joke is performed doesn't diminish its humor or keep you from squirming as you watch . with energetic music , including such old favorites as " american woman , " and with intricately planned comedy , this latest austin powers should delight the fans of the original as well as attract new ones . this time the sequel is better than its predecessor . austin powers : the spy who shagged me runs 1 : 33 . it is rated pg-13 for sexual innuendo and crude humor and would be fine for kids around 11 or 12 and up . 
never has poverty looked more inviting than in wim wenders's buena vista social club . a documentary about cuban music , it's also a homage to the people of havana and to havana itself . shot on digital video with heavily oversaturated colors , the movie shows off the city's radiant beauty to maximum effect . dilapidated buildings with peeling paint are made so appealing that they look like paul gauguin paintings . the cars , being all pre-castro american , make the movie feel like something between a time warp and a classic auto show . the real attraction of the movie , however , is its concert footage , introducing most of us to music that we've heard little of before . with haunting rhythms and soulful lyrics , the heartfelt songs strike an emotional chord deep within our psyche . from the very first note , the music grabs the audience with a visceral intensity and never lets go . in its heyday , all of the best bands played at the " buena vista social club " in havana . the movie includes music from many of these groups . the film argues convincingly that this was their last concert together . whenever the energetic music plays , the film is sublime . songs of love are among the most popular , but there are other playful ones as well . then , again , perhaps this song was meant to be understood in metaphor . the movie bogs down only when the music stops . one piece of advice to filmgoers . when you are ready to experience this good-spirited and infectiously happy musical documentary , choose your theater carefully . only ones with adequate legroom will do . no matter how hard you try , your feet will prove uncontrollable from the moment the music starts . there is no need to punish them by confining them to a tight enclosure . finally , a suggestion to theater owners . this will be the easiest sell you will ever make . the film has spanish dialog and songs , both with english subtitles . it is not rated but would be a g as there is nothing to offend anyone of any age . 
most viewers , including this seasoned one , will be at a loss to say precisely what the picture is about and what figgis is trying to say with it . the story is bafflingly frustrating yet beautifully intriguing and unabashedly sexual . think of it as a mysterious , erotic tone poem for thinking adults . but be forewarned . many members of the audience are likely to be scratching their heads at the end , asking themselves , " what was that all about ? " told in overlaying stories that flash forward and back , the stories are purposefully oblique . containing few audible words , the film's sparse dialog is generally heard , if at all , in whispers or through obstacles such as glass or fire . figgis wants the images and his sublime music to carry the picture . since sands is tall and athletic , this casting of the excessively plump boy was a particularly bad choice . the best part of this story is a long and absolutely adorable sequence of newly born twins as they stretch and greet the world . in a movie charged with eroticism , these sequences are the most playfully sexual . in a movie that clearly should have been rated nc-17 , they are shown in full frontal-nudity as they observe each other standing and urinating . this story contains the most nudity this side of a porn flick . using a loud and shrill version of beethoven's ode to joy , figgis makes the purge take on a naziesque feel as the once innocent young lovers are chased by hidden boogiemen with flashlights . the various stories are interrelated in ways imaginable and unimaginable . the movie is best savored when you turn brain off and treat the movie as a completely sensory experience . the picture is at its most satisfying in its sexual escapades . besides the aforementioned biblical references , two other sexual scenes stand out . this funny and charming scene is one that most of us have experienced before , and figgis's staging is convincingly natural . again , figgis's staging is dead-on , and their passion has a visceral intensity . confusingly mesmerizing and handsomely filmed , the movie defies deconstruction but speaks to you through its subliminal messages . when you leave , you're more likely to feel the movie in your subconscious than to think about it directly . fight the urge to understand it . just enjoy it . it is rated r for strong sexual content , full-frontal nudity , violence and profanity . consider the movie nc-17 and for adults . 
teaming roberts up again with richard gere and director garry marshall , this movie , as everyone associated with it carefully points out , is not a sequel to pretty woman , the hit movie that started this decade . gere and roberts evidence enough genuine chemistry on the screen to fill a dozen run-of-the-mill romances . the script by sara parriott , josann mcgibbon and audrey wells is filled with some nice one liners and several delightfully quirky characters . as peggy fleming -- no , not that peggy fleming -- the owner of the " curl up and dye " beauty salon , joan cusack plays maggie's long-time best buddy and an unabashed weird character . the movie is filled with such well-constructed sight gags . roberts , with her glamorous looks , is so confident that she's willing to look ugly in the service of comedy . the surprise of the casting is that as lovely as roberts is , gere , with his thick gray , wavy hair , manages to outshine her . in fact , it is gere , not roberts , who steals most of their scenes . with a relaxed savoir-faire , gere gives himself a decided cary grant air . combatants at first , their relationship changes over the course of the good-spirited film , much to the delight of the audience . the laughs tend to come batched together , causing viewers to miss some delicious little zingers . oh well , you can catch them all when you rent it later . the one thing in which the audience feels confident is that , whatever she chooses , the results will be charming and humorous . they will not be disappointed . it is rated pg for language and some suggestive dialogue and would be fine for kids around 8 and up . my son jeffrey , age 10 , loved the movie and gave it * * * . he thought it was a little repetitious but had some good laughs that cracked him up . 
welcome back to yesteryear . when one could use the word wholesome as a compliment without any satirical or negative connotations . at the height of the cold war , the kids are having fun watching hokey , science-fiction television shows at home and comically serious duck-and-cover films at school . " it's the greatest discovery since television , i guess , " he proudly declares . this lovable hunk of hardware is drawn as a homage to what we thought of robots back then . the head on his 100-foot body is a little too small , his mechanisms are more mechanical than electrical and he possesses certain special powers that even he doesn't seem to know about . most of all , he has these awesome sounds . once the gentle giant learns to speak , his precious , raspy voice sounds like it comes from deep within an empty , metal well . " something just ate our antenna . " yes , he's right . " while you're snoozing in your jammies , back in washington we're wide awake and worried , " the humorously supercilious kent lectures hogarth . the movie , which dares to spend more time with tenderness than slapstick , has a wonderfully touching ending . one could dream of a world in which there were more good kids' movies like this one -- ones with simple but endearing charms that warm the heart . motion pictures can and should be about more than special effects and gross humor . the iron giant is a start . the iron giant runs 1 : 26 . it is rated pg for a few cuss words -- as in " what the hell ? " -- that are clearly thrown in for the sole purpose of avoiding a g rating . only some of the scary images might briefly frighten the youngest viewers . in our packed audience , filled with kids of all ages , none seemed afraid . my son jeffrey , age 10 , thought it was a " really sweet movie " and gave it * * 1/2 . 
let's face it . kelly makin's mickey blue eyes is analyze this-lite , but that isn't necessarily a bad thing . any movie with hugh grant ( notting hill ) , james caan ( the godfather ) and jeanne tripplehorn ( basic instinct ) is almost guaranteed to be an entertaining success , even if a similar one with robert de niro , billy crystal and lisa kudrow was better . big laughs are big laughs . that another movie earlier in the year would rate higher on the laugh-o-meter is irrelevant . mickey blue eyes delivers more than enough crowd pleasing humor . hugh grant , with his boyish grin and his rumpled good looks , is the master of the i-can't-believe-this-is-happening-to-me situation . he wears his charming naivet ? on his sleeve and makes what he does look so easy that it doesn't appear to be acting . and this isn't even the worst part . it all starts innocently enough . michael points out the problem with the name , but , as in the rest of the story , people don't pay much attention to his opinion . the movie , with few exceptions , never forgets it's a parody . although trying hard to avoid any degree of criminality , michael , nevertheless , manages to earn himself the moniker of kansas city mickey blue eyes . the movie's funniest scenes have him trying with little success to mimic the gang's pronunciation of such classic lines as " fuggedaboutit . " with his grace and style , grant dominates the film , but the rest of the cast nicely complement him . tripplehorn , whose strength is her sexuality , taps a comedic reservoir rarely seen before other than her work in last year's underappreciated black comedy very bad things . every actor who has ever played an italian mobster appears to be in the large and effective supporting cast . director makin ( kids in the hall ) generally has a good sense of comedic timing , although some parts of the movie flag briefly . the movie is old-fashioned fun . but does it go so far as to be memorable ? it is rated pg-13 for brief strong language , some violence and sensuality and would be fine for kids 9 and up . my son jeffrey , age 10 , found the film funny and gave it * * * . he liked the actors and the ending surprises . 
" i think cher said that . " sugar town by joint writers and directors allison anders and kurt voss is a bitingly sardonic tale about fame and the lack thereof . like a mixture of the player and short cuts , the satire successfully includes over a dozen leads and yet manages to develop all of them into interesting individuals in their own right . a thoroughly enjoyable movie , it is full of laughs , small and large . still , it is work . needless to say , he will prove less than organic . the quirky comedy , full of biting sarcasm , is also educational . " it's all about the microphone , " bert explains . it is rated r for strong language , some drug content and sexuality and would be fine for teenagers . 
with just the sort of script that hitchcock would have been drawn to , the minus man features everyday people who aren't always quite what they seem . full of small twists and subplots , the deliciously diabolical drama stars owen wilson as vann siegert , a likeable all-american boy type , who has just one tiny flaw -- he's a serial killer . vann , a deranged young adult , is really a sweet blonde with a strong moral code , just not a normal one . ( " i take the natural momentum of a person and draw it toward me . " " i never make a plan . written and directed by hampton fancher , the co-writer of blade runner , the minus man should get bonus points for its trailer . in an age in which studios think that audiences will not see a movie unless the entire plot is revealed in the trailers , the minus man dares to have a trailer that features not a single clip from the film . all you see in it are two fictional people leaving the movie , arguing about it . a meticulous and delicate little mystery and thriller , the minus man can be thought of as the anti-scream -- low on gore , as if the killer himself made the movie . he's a gentle soul , who wouldn't want to disturb the audience . like most of the story , everything is suspect . quirky doug is a conundrum . who did it ? or maybe , doug himself ? some of the story's puzzles are immediately solved while others fester . showing a na ? ve and playfully alluring side rarely seen , garofalo proves that the studios may have incorrectly pigeonholed her . hitchcock understood the power of humor , something the minus man could have used more often . " i look so hard , i forget there's nothing to find . " bobby bukowski's intimately lit cinematography , full of close-ups , gives the striking picture a realism and an immediacy . although the film's deliberately slow pacing will undoubtedly irritate some , the director's style is more mesmerizing than soporific . with fancher averaging about a script a decade , one would hope that this film will boost his cachet in hollywood and he will be sought out more often . it is rated r for language and a scene of drug use and would be fine for teenagers . 
although not as insightful as michael apted's up documentary series , it shares a similar construction in the way it contrasts people's opinions over a span of time . overall , the participants and the movie this time are much mellower and laid back . the first movie contained more surprises , but this one is no less enjoyable and fascinating . it is also much more polished , as the filmmaker's skills have advanced considerably in the interim . of the group , almost half have majors such as feminist studies for political science and african-american women's studies . no matter how representative the group looks , one wonders if they really are . nevertheless , each of them have intriguing stories . he figures that whatever he does , he'll have to work 80+ hour weeks , which will not allow enough time to date . " the people i interview with just don't like me , " he worries , without any real need . " i wish i could change to be a different person . " " i care far too much about what others think of me , " he says with brutal honesty about why he made one of his choices as a freshman . " to be happy , you have to have a good job . " it is not rated but would be an r for some profanity and sexual discussions . the film would be fine for teenagers and should probably be required viewing for college-bound teenagers and their parents . but even if you aren't in either of these categories , the mesmerizing movie is something well worth seeing . 
supposedly , just before you die , your entire life flashes before your eyes . this last game of his , perhaps , just perhaps , might even be one for the record books . then again , maybe not . directed with an inviting poignancy by sam raimi ( a simple plan ) , the movie charms with its old-fashioned story of love . costner , in one of his best performances in years , creates a character who earns our respect and our sympathy . in his subtly emotive turn as an aging superstar , he manages to make his pain palpable without ever letting things dissolve into schmaltz . still , you may want to have your handkerchief at the ready since the story has the potential to reduce you to tears as it did several in our audience . for love of the game is more a love story than a sports story . a good sports movie becomes an even better study of a man and his two loves . the chemistry between the two lovers is genuine , and their attraction rises above the sexual . " you count them ? " " that's all we do . " " have you ever got your heart broken ? " lovingly filmed by john bailey with the twinkling glow of new york at night and with the warm colors of a baseball game , the movie is invitingly sentimental and nostalgic . paced with the same slow rhythms of a baseball game itself , which will either delight or annoy you , the picture never fails to entertain . it may not belong in quite the same league as the natural or field of dreams , but it's certainly a hit . even if it may not quite be a home run , it's an awe-inspiring triple that'll have you cheering and maybe even weeping . it is rated pg-13 for brief strong language and some sexuality . the movie would be fine for kids around 10 and up . my son jeffrey , age 10 , was visibly bored during the movie . he gave it just a single * , complaining that it was too predicable and the flashbacks were too hard to follow . john's twin , steven , liked the movie and gave it * * * . 
supposedly , just before you die , your entire life flashes before your eyes . this last game of his , perhaps , just perhaps , might even be one for the record books . then again , maybe not . directed with an inviting poignancy by sam raimi ( a simple plan ) , the movie charms with its old-fashioned story of love . costner , in one of his best performances in years , creates a character who earns our respect and our sympathy . in his subtly emotive turn as an aging superstar , he manages to make his pain palpable without ever letting things dissolve into schmaltz . still , you may want to have your handkerchief at the ready since the story has the potential to reduce you to tears as it did several in our audience . for love of the game is more a love story than a sports story . a good sports movie becomes an even better study of a man and his two loves . the chemistry between the two lovers is genuine , and their attraction rises above the sexual . " you count them ? " " that's all we do . " " have you ever got your heart broken ? " lovingly filmed by john bailey with the twinkling glow of new york at night and with the warm colors of a baseball game , the movie is invitingly sentimental and nostalgic . paced with the same slow rhythms of a baseball game itself , which will either delight or annoy you , the picture never fails to entertain . it may not belong in quite the same league as the natural or field of dreams , but it's certainly a hit . even if it may not quite be a home run , it's an awe-inspiring triple that'll have you cheering and maybe even weeping . it is rated pg-13 for brief strong language and some sexuality . the movie would be fine for kids around 10 and up . my son jeffrey , age 10 , was visibly bored during the movie . he gave it just a single * , complaining that it was too predicable and the flashbacks were too hard to follow . john's twin , steven , liked the movie and gave it * * * . 
the limey is a stylish thriller by director steven soderbergh . from his original , groundbreaking sex , lies and videotape to last year's acclaimed out of sight , soderbergh has proved that he's a director who has a knack for creating fascinating movies just slightly out of the mainstream . the limey continues in soderbergh's avant-garde tradition . featuring frequent jump cuts and fast action interlaced with moments of solitude , the movie has a dazzlingly impressive style . layering as many as a half-dozen time sequences on top of each other , the film is a tribute to the director's talent since the movie remains lucid and easy to follow no matter how often the time changes . it seems ed and jennifer met in an acting class -- remember it's la , where everyone aspires to hit it big in show biz . with a pensive and introspective demeanor and sporadically explosive actions , stamp gives his character an intellectual intensity . wilson's a force to be reckoned with , even if he has trouble understanding the mores and habits of the natives . although his accent is intelligible , his sentences are so full of cockney slang that he sometimes seems to be speaking gibberish . " there is one thing i don't understand , " he tells wilson . " the one thing . one #@$% you've said . " lem dobbs's script is full of wry , biting humor . " you could see the sea out there , if you could see it , " ed remarks , not used to such lavish perks . you can say one thing about those wealthy angelenos . they certainly have class . it is rated r for violence and language and would be fine for teenagers . 
as enigmatic as its subject material , the documentary makes the place seem like a cross between a new revolutionland area of disneyland and a local folk festival . only in the latter part of the movie do the images subside and the substance begins to take over . with his striking stance and his signature pipe , he provides the perfect logo for the insurrection . " i am drawn to the zapatistas with an uneasy excitement , " wild confesses with the giddy exhilaration of someone off to an exotic and slightly dangerous land for vacation . the film's downfall is that she finds very few people to interview , relying instead on her thoughts in voice-over as she shows us travelogue -- beautiful scenes of the natives in their colorful costumes -- plus ski masks and bandanas to cover the faces of the men with the guns . " i've been here 12 years , and i still don't understand it , " he confesses . the film is mainly in english , but some scenes are in spanish and in tzotzil , both with english subtitles . it is not rated but might be pg-13 for language , mature themes and some violent images . it would be fine for teenagers . 
the intelligent script by mckellar , who also directs and stars in the movie , carefully avoids discussions of why and how the earth will end . the film concentrates on the small stories , not the large ones . the beauty of the production is that it is easy to see parts of yourself in every character's reaction to the crisis . most people have not contemplated their own deaths , much less the deaths of everyone they know . think about it for a moment . assume that the world will end and that you are down to the last few hours . what do you want to do , and with whom do you want to do it ? and what if you're single and not currently in a relationship ? feeling like an intriguing episode from the old television series called " the twilight zone , " the movie takes a short story approach . there are many characters , but the tightly written drama contains neither subplots about scientists trying to avert the disaster nor any other narrative diversions . in a story that is much more a drama than a comedy , craig zwiller ( callum keith rennie ) provides some of the modest laughs . he has a long list of pleasures , mainly sexual , that he's always wanted to experience . most people react awkwardly , not knowing how to deal with such an uncomfortable and unique situation . for some the end of the world is treated as a gigantic celebration like a new year's eve party in times square . the story includes this element but doesn't dwell on it . an absorbing and thought-provoking little film , it grows on you . light-years from the special effects approach we are used to from hollywood , the picture engages your mind rather than your gut , making a convincing argument that less can be more when it comes to filmmaking . it is rated r for sexuality , language and brief violence and would be fine for teenagers . 
over the years i've gotten numerous letters from people infuriated at me for not liking one of their favorite films . one of the frequent complaints is that it is clear to them that i would never like the film in the first place , so why did i bother to go ? ( the other answer is that i review everything for my readers . ) going into this movie , i had extremely low expectations . the last time i saw the two male leads , fools rush in ( perry ) and 'til there was you ( mcdermott ) , i hated the pictures in general and their performances in particular . moreover , three to tango's theme of a gay guy who really isn't was not something that sounded at all promising . what a pleasant surprise it turned out to be . a sweet little mistaken identity story in a whimsical style reminiscent of shakespeare's " as you like it , " three to tango doesn't have a pretentious bone in its body . its high-spirited swing music matches perfectly the happy tone of the production . ( the show is neatly bracketed with two energetic song and dance numbers in the opening and closing credits . ) and lensed by walt lloyd with a neon gloss of bright blues and greens , the picture looks terrific . as superrich cad charles newman , dylan mcdermott turns his usually unlikable demeanor into an attribute . rodney patrick vaccaro's wryly funny script is tailor-made for matthew perry as oscar novak , a struggling architect . oscar , being gay , proves to be just what charles wants . perry's deadpan humor shines with some of his best lines being unprintable . one scene that had no business working , but does , concerns oscar and amy's first " date . " " it doesn't get much better than this , " oscar says with a smiling sincerity after he throws up . done off screen , the regurgitation , my least favorite film feature , manages to be surprisingly endearing . as the story unfolds , oscar and amy's relationship deepens and is much more believable than that of harrison ford and kristin scott thomas in random hearts . the sexual tension between oscar and amy is palpable even if neither feels able to do anything about it . this tension is especially in evidence in a funny bubble bath scene . " i'm all for homosexuality when it comes to two gorgeous women -- or three , " he says breathlessly in a revealing line . even when the movie turns slightly serious at the end , frequently the kiss of death for comedies , the director makes the events credible , even within the context of the unabashedly silly story . the result is a romantic comedy with a genuine chemistry between the lovers and plenty of laughs . a delightful story that manages somehow to be tender , it puts a magical little spell on its audience . three to tango is rated pg-13 for sex-related situations and language and would be fine for teenagers . 
i'm a firm believer in film critics admitting their biases , especially when it may not be obvious . let me start by confessing that ; as a native texan , i have always had a special place in my heart for armadillos , a waddling sherman tank of an animal that looks like a possum with body armor . ever since they took to invading my outdoor chapel service when i was a boy at camp , i've loved those little critters . in mark illsley's happy , texas , written with great glee by the director and ed stone , an armadillo gets some revenge on its most common predator , the automobile . the entire picture is marvelously cast but none is better than veteran supporting actor william h . macy ( academy award winner for fargo ) as the in-the-closet gay , sheriff dent . in a marvelously silly bit of physical comedy , wayne screams at the girls and tries to show them how to sing and dance . he's a doofus disaster at first , but , of course , he'll get better , which he manages to make as prissily fun as when he is bad . one of the best subplots in a wonderful romp of a film concerns the moves that chappy puts on harry . ordering a steak , chappy tells the waiter , " i want the rarest steak you've got -- just dehorn it , wipe its butt and send it in . " nope . if you don't feel that you've gotten your money's worth from a picture unless you can leave the theater saddened by the gravity of the depressing situations , and if your favorite films all have unhappy endings , then happy , texas may leave you with an uncomfortably happy feeling . but for those of us that could use a little mirth in our lives , the good-spirited happy , texas with its silly script and adorable antics is just what we need . it is rated pg-13 for language , sexual content and some violence and would be fine for kids around 12 and up . 
the moving but never morose film tells an always touching and sometimes funny coming of age story . imagine that . a cinematic family that's not only not dysfunctional , but even enjoys and looks forward to each other's presence . but it will not be long until almost everyone seems to be taking sides and peacemakers like the baker are all but forgotten . " i know it's tense , " the father tells the family . " tense ! " an obnoxious woman , she does have one saving grace . she elicits the movie's funniest line . what he does and doesn't do there shows the difference between an indie film and a hollywood one . the director takes a setup ripe for clich ? s and turns it instead into another touching episode in a delightful little film . west beirut is filled with realistic people whom you'd like to know . tarek and his family and friends are so genuine and likable that you'll wish you could invite them all over for dinner . the film is in arabic and french , both accompanied by easy to follow english subtitles . the movie is not rated but would probably be pg-13 for some profanity and some war footage . it would be fine for kids around 11 and up . 
the unabashedly sentimental , english-language film the legend of 1900 by writer and director giuseppe tornatore ( cinema paradiso ) is based on a popular italian monologue by alessandro baricco . the first time he plays , the entire ship is awakened by the sublime sounds . the film itself is a wonderful treat for the ears and the eyes . the mesmerizing music must be enough for 2 cds , and the cinematography is warmly romantic , as are the handsome sets . knowing that the film had garnered considerable negative , early buzz in the press as being sappy , i approached it with no small amount of trepidation . maybe this film isn't for everyone , but if you are able to open your heart to its romantic rhythms , you may be as transfixed as i was . as i watched it , it kept reminding me of once upon a time in america , an admittedly better movie , in its grandeur , its intimacy , its period and its sounds . the director , as he did in his award winning cinema paradiso , knows how to stage scenes with a delightfully whimsical touch and a visually audacious flair . the piano glides wildly all over the ballroom as 1900 plays luxurious music on it . not many directors would attempt choreography with a grand piano as the sole dancer . another one of the movie's wonderful moments occurs when jelly roll morton , who proudly claims to be " the man who invented jazz , " drops by the ship to challenge 1900 to a musical duel . clearly enjoying every minute of it , a suave-looking clarence williams iii ( " mod squad " ) does a delicious turn as a jazz legend . in a movie whose biggest problem is that its narrative is allowed too often to get lost at sea , the director makes the right decision here in letting the battle of piano titans go on much longer than you'd ever expect . 1900's strategy and the way the contest is decided are both quite surprising . the story casts a spell on you as the music flows through your soul . although it's more a tone poem than a motion picture , it has a seductive appeal . " the end , the end , please just show me where it ends , " 1900 begs max . the movie itself ends predictably but poetically . and it's the type of movie that either you'll love or you'll hate . count me in the former category . it is rated r for brief strong language . if you don't mind your children hearing the f-word a few times , mainly as a replacement for " darn , " and if your children like sentimental yarns , then they are old enough to see the film . 
the only recent movie quite like american movie was the much better hands on a hardbody , which should be required viewing for anyone who likes either documentaries or comedies . what the two films share is a respectful but honest view of the poor part of america either ignored by hollywood or excessively romanticized . actually , american movie isn't about making a movie , that's just the context within which to tell the story of someone in search of the american dream . were it not for the fabulous success of the blair witch project , we might write-off mark's cheesy , slasher flicks as being forever destined to be financial disasters . but if another indie filmmaker can ride to fame and fortune on something that looks like a bad home video , why not mark , who even shoots with real film rather than videotape ? mark , a likable guy with a scraggy beard and long unkempt hair , talks a mile a minute about his aspirations . " there's such corny dialog , " he says of his third draft of northwestern's script , " that it'd make the pope weep . " although you'll find mark charming and funny , not everyone has a charitable view of mark's potential . his buddy and fellow filmmaker , mike schank , who looks straight out of central casting , acts like his brain was fried years ago . when reminded by mark , mike just gives him a puppy-dog grin as if to say that if you didn't place the flyers directly into my hands , it can't be my fault . as delightfully inviting as the documentary is , it makes you yearn for a fast-forward button . footage of mark bathing his grandfather might work in some other film , but here it just bogs down the narrative . although the documentary is about mark's films and whether they would ever get distributed , chris smith and sarah price , the two filmmakers on american movie , maxed out their nine credit cards buying film stock for two years , as they followed mark around . and mark , certainly , isn't one who is likely to ever quit . american movie runs too long at 1 : 49 . it is rated r for fake-looking gore and frequent profanity and would be fine for teenagers . 
a live radio drama is the setting for writer/director koki mitani's enchanting , screwball comedy , welcome back , mr . mcdonald . even if it doesn't generate many laughs , it's good-spirited tone will put a smile in your heart , and its rousing ending will likely have you applauding . although she doesn't like it , she allows herself to be pushed around by a bunch of egocentric actors , who demand more changes in the script than you can count . the movie imparts a real feel of the excitement of both radio drama and of a live production , both dying art forms . the film , while at first seems easy to write off as trivially uninteresting , soon grows on you as the eminently likable characters work their charms . with such a wonderful , hard-working ensemble cast , the movie could have succeeded with a bad script , which this one isn't . oh , it isn't much of one , but it constantly surprises you in simple but magical ways . and the picture is beautifully filmed in warm inviting colors by kenji takama and junichi tozawa . in a movie with a large number of delightful little moments and characters , none is better than an old guard ( shir ? namiki ) . it is to him the director turns in a moment , actually several moments , of panic . machine guns are easy , you just need a box of pistachio nuts -- he points out that americans prefer using corn , but pistachios are better . " try not to put so much faith in your machines , " he admonishes the director . the movie thus seems to be telling studios , by implication , not to put so much faith in expensive special effects . concentrate instead on the basics , starting with the acting . welcome back , mr . the film is in japanese with easy to follow english subtitles . it is not rated but would be a g , as it is appropriate for all ages . 
tim burton's campily creepy sleepy hollow has great visuals and johnny depp's usual imaginative acting . a fun film , it is light-years better than the schlock horror pictures that played this past halloween , when this movie should have more appropriately opened . no , not about the gore . if you purchase a ticket to sleepy hollow and are shocked to see explicit violence in a movie about a serial decapitator , then you have only your own naive stupidity to blame . the warning is about the script and the miscasting of the female lead . kevin yagher's underdeveloped script , based on the famous washington irving story , " the legend of sleepy hollow , " has some good ideas but lacks a cohesive narrative . the script , which takes advantage of none of her signature sarcasm , offers her few opportunities to shine . the result is a bland performance in which there is no chemistry between her and depp . basically , to enjoy the show the viewers are required to ignore ricci and focus exclusively on depp and on the film's mesmerizing look . ( with sharp triangular teeth , christopher walken , in a cameo , does an hilarious , over-the-top rendition of the headless horseman . ) the marvel of depp's performance is that he encourages us to laugh with him and not at him . with shifty eyes and dramatic gestures , he lets us in on the joke . " it's okay , " he seems to be saying to us , " we know you're going to find this funny . laugh all you want and have a good time . " ah , and then there are the visuals , which are certainly worth the price of admission . the gothic village itself has a wonderfully eerie feel . emmanuel lubezki's cinematography features denuded color in some scenes and a strong steel-blue look in others . as the scenes change , " wow " is the most common reaction . it's fun , it's funny , it looks great and it's got johnny depp . what else do you need to know about the movie , anyway ? it is rated r for graphic horror violence and gore , and for a scene of sexuality and would be fine for most teenagers . 
some movies shoot for the moon . bond films , on the other hand , have modest , simple aspirations . they are happy just to provide solid entertainment value . and by that metric , the world is not enough , directed by 42 up's michael apted , does exactly what it sets out to do . the most important costars in the bond movies are the spy's toys . these films usually have the audience applauding for the stunts , and this episode of the superspy saga is no different . the best of the bunch in the world is not enough is a sleek , one-man , black boat complete with jet afterburners , which looks like something custom-made for batman . the vehicle even has the ability to dive underwater briefly while the driver holds his breath . it can turn into a car as well , all the better to engage in a typical bond demolition derby . the outcome of a bond movie is never in question , but who cares ? that's not why we're here . we come to have fun and enjoy the action , like the helicopter with a supersized chainsaw attached , which cuts through cars and buildings . bond films always feature beautiful women , and the two this time are among the best of the bond babes . first seen in a tight fitting tank top and brief shorts , she makes science look pretty exciting . " you want to put that into english for those of us who don't speak spy ? " jones mocks bond at one point . the movie is rife with such double-entendres , which delight the older members of the audience while going right over the heads of the younger . the funny script by bruce feirstein , neal purvis , and robert wade is filled with puns and clever little jokes . bond movies don't really have messages . they're happy just to amuse us , which this one does in spades with its great stunts , funny dialog and crisp acting . on the other hand , if we want to go looking for a message , bond himself says it best . now that's something with which viewers of either sex can identify . the world is not enough runs 2 : 08 . it is rated pg-13 for intense sequences of action violence , some sexuality and innuendo and would be acceptable for kids around 10 or 11 and up . my son jeffrey , age 10 , who has seen all but 2 of the bond films , loved this one , giving it * * * * . he especially liked the battles and the boat/sub/car . alan and john complained that there was too much sleeping around . 
writer/director atom egoyan , whose last picture was the universally acclaimed the sweet hereafter ( number two on my best picture of the year list in 1997 ) , is back with another sad tale , felicia's journey . " it keeps our spirits up . it makes us feel loved . " not many industrial cafeteria managers care so much about their products , but hilditch is different . egoyan is a master at creating a mood . britain's industrial heartland looks cold , gray and dreary in contrast to hilditch's bright , fully equipped kitchen . neither answer will come as much of a shock . given that the element of surprise isn't present to any extent , egoyan makes a strategic mistake in the film's structure . the completely satisfying setup of the plot is allowed to go on for too long . it isn't until after the film's midway point that the picture is finally ready to get under way . then , when it should be getting into gear , egoyan gives hilditch several long monologues that try viewers' patience . the lethargic second half is a let down as it never quite delivers on the promise of the first . an incongruous subplot that seems lifted out of a bad comedy features a group of evangelical christians as the story's buffoons . they serve , however , only to clutter up the storyline and slow its momentum when it should be building up . hitchcock made fascinating films that , compared to the body of his work , were relatively run of the mill for him . so it is with egoyan's felicia's journey , an intriguing picture that's ultimately a disappointment because it's a near miss . well worth seeing , but far from the director's best . felicia's journey runs too long at 1 : 56 . it is rated pg-13 for mature thematic elements and related disturbing images and would be fine for teenagers . 
this time it's the story of a gentle giant , john coffey ( michael clarke duncan ) , who wouldn't harm a fly or a mouse -- more on the rodent later . the result is a full three-hour movie that has no business being any longer than two . the viewers listen politely , trying not to fall asleep in the long , slow moments because the acting from the ensemble cast is superb . but with darabont's proclivity for telegraphing every major plot turn way in advance , much of the drama is removed . like the rest of the story , the director never allows for much doubt about the crime . ( why can't we have more mystery in our motion pictures ? ) david tattersall's lush cinematography makes the few images outside the prison walls warmly nostalgic and the ones inside , when the miracles occur , magical . even if he gets awards for his performance , hanks's work here is relatively middle of the road for him , which is a compliment to his talents . the often funny script becomes charming as well when the little critter takes center stage to strut his stuff like the circus insects in a bug's life . " sometimes the green mile seems so long , " we are told in narration . what should have been a great film turns into merely an enjoyable one because of its drawn-out length . the performances are admirable , but the characters aren't quite compelling . you end up respecting the show more than liking it . as it constantly tries to shock us with frightening images of people being electrocuted , we find ourselves becoming dispassionate observers . sometimes intentional manipulation backfires as it does here . being instructed to cry on cue every time they turn on the juice , this member of the audience just wasn't able to perform his role properly . the green mile runs a full hour too long at 3 : 03 . it is rated r for violence , language and some sex-related material and would be acceptable for older teenagers . in the san jose area it will be playing at the amc and the century theaters . 
patience . in this jerry bruckheimer era of rock 'em , sock 'em filmmaking , audiences have little patience . worse , when they do , the films frequently don't deliver the rewards promised by their slow approach , frustrating audiences and making them more likely to go for quick gratification the next time . there's nothing like watching bruce willis save the world , or some large part of it , to pump up your adrenaline . in a complete opposite to the in-your-face action style of filmmaking , ang lee's career has been devoted to the human dimension . from his comedic eat drink man woman to his intimate sense and sensibility to his biting the ice storm , his pictures have cut through the gloss to deliver fascinating , realistic character studies . those going expecting a traditional war picture will be sorely disappointed . if that's the film you want , then lee is not the director to make it . ride with the devil moves with its own methodical rhythms and with most of its story told in quiet moments of anguish as the bushwhackers hide between fights . battle scenes there are , but they are few and far between and rarely take center stage . lee sets this in a wonderfully pastoral setting , full of chirping crickets , clucking hens and mooing cows . it was a time when not much of anything lasted . the letters are full of resignation to the fact that the recipient or the sender or both may be dead before the letter is delivered . the beauty of lee's picture is that he relates their story with compassion but without schmaltz . enlightening , fascinating and tender , it is the movie for those who want to get behind the lines and the action and get to know the individuals drawn into such a hellacious situation . it is rated r for some graphic war violence and would be fine for older teenagers . 
perform without benefit of a corset ? for the latest gilbert and sullivan opera , the actors and actresses have been firmly instructed not to wear their corsets . none of them have ever gone on stage without a corset before , so pandemonium has set in . in a lesser performance , allan corduner plays arthur sullivan as somewhat of an enigma . " i merely bask in your reflecting glory . " but corduner gives us little appreciation of sullivan's actual gifts . that he had higher aspirations than gilbert is made apparent but little more . the film's momentum suffers greatly from leigh's proclivity to include such extraneous material as dentist visits and to let some scenes run on for what seems an eternity . if you don't like gilbert and sullivan operas , imagine how painful having long passages read aloud will be . all the picture's production sins , and they are many , are eventually redeemed as you become part of the show . by the end you'll feel like you've signed on to sing in the chorus . filmed by dick pope in garish colors , the movie makes gilbert and sullivan's style of comedic opera look attractive and funny . the opera as kitsch was something that gilbert himself was unclear about . he describes " the mikado " as " not grand opera but low burlesque . " this is an entirely new japanese opera . " yet , he wasn't happy . among the film's small delights are leigh's fascination with the scientific instruments of the time and their effect on the operation of an opera company . from the telephone to the " reservoir pen " to the special effects , each contributes in it's own way to the opera's production . nothing , however , can make up for the fact that the movie is a full hour too long . films like this almost make you wish for a dastardly studio executive to seize the print and cut it down to the proper size . movie after movie this holiday season feels as bloated as a diner after a big christmas dinner . even with its excesses , however , topsy-turvy is a good-spirited and intriguing behind-the-scenes look at a stage production and is worth seeing . it is rated r for a scene of risqu ? nudity and would be fine for teenagers . 
andy kaufman's performances constantly raised that question , and so does milos forman's movie about andy's life , man on the moon . starring jim carrey as kaufman as well as andy's alter ego , tony clifton , the movie tests the limits of the viewers' patience just as andy did . the frequently funny result is as much a curiosity piece as a traditional motion picture . but one fact is undeniable , carrey is terrific in the role and might finally earn the oscar nomination that he so richly deserved , but didn't get , last year for the truman show . then again , hollywood has never really warmed up to carrey's acting talent , so don't bet on any nominations . the script by scott alexander and larry karaszewski has the movie start with the closing credits . yes , you read that right , the closing , not the opening credits . one problem with the script , however , is that this turns out to be the highlight of the entire show . it never again reaches this level of imagination and joy . just as andy generated a mixture of reactions from his audience from grimaces to nervous laughter , the movie produces those same reactions . still , even at its most unpleasant , the movie features carrey's talent , which never ceases to dazzle and amaze . " i don't even do jokes . i don't know what's funny . " and to andy , success consists of so riling up his audience that half of them walk out in disgust . it's not often that a romantic relationship starts with a fight . perhaps the most honest line is uttered by a television executive . when shown the tape that andy wants to be his big tv special , the executive looks at it in total disbelief , saying the obvious , " this is not funny ! " " you're like some stupid kid who comes home and says , 'look dad , i got an f' , " george tells andy , as andy's career goes down the drain . enjoying a movie in which bad is supposed to be good is at best problematic , but carrey manages to make it strangely compelling . it's always hard to figure out whether someone will like a movie , but the recommendation on this one is easy . if you've seen the trailers , you've already seen the movie . the full-length version just fills in some details . if you liked the trailers , you'll probably like the film . and if you didn't think much of the trailers , well , save your money . it is rated r for language and would be fine for teenagers . 
although frequently quite funny , the film rarely goes for the cheap laughs . most of the surprisingly serious story focuses on exactly what it means to be human and on what is important in life . there are some impressive special effects , but the picture is more a charming character study than a futuristic adventure . if you've seen the trailers , you probably think of the film as slightly slapstick . it turns out , however , to be much more substantial and moving that you would suspect . the downside to this is that , despite its mild pg rating , the story isn't for kids who aren't able to handle the death of loved ones on the screen . key characters die naturally and peacefully of old age , but they do pass away -- a fact upon which the story dwells . the result is either meaningfully touching or depressingly sad . adults and teens will mostly be in the former category , but younger ones may be completely turned off . as the 10-year-olds with us explained , it's one thing to witness a dinosaur violently devour people you don't care about , but it's much harder to watch one treasured character after another perish . it's a script that plays simultaneously to the head and to the heart , asking many questions to make the viewers think . andrew turns out to be a model ndr-114 like no other . he has artistic abilities , able to make intricate carvings and delicate clocks , and he has " almost " human feelings . the primary question posed by the story is under what circumstances could we remove the word " almost " from the previous sentence . the results prove quite comical . teaching a robot to tell a joke is especially tricky since he tries to dissect the meanings rather than enjoying the spirit of the joke . in one scene we come in at the end of sir's birds-and-bees talk with andrew . the story , which is told chronologically , makes several large leaps in time . galatea does provide great fodder for humorous material . it is rated pg for language and some sexual content . the film would be fine for teenagers . whether the movie would be appropriate for those under 13 , depends on the kid's sensitivity to the issues of dying . my son jeffrey , age 10 , gave the movie * * . he laughed harder than i've ever seen him laugh in a movie , but he complained that he found the deaths " really depressing . " they had similar comments about the movie . both were extremely upset over its sadness , and both thought sections of it were hilarious , especially those with galatea in it . 
once upon a time , good , old-fashioned kids' movies were released regularly to the theaters . columbia pictures , bucking the trend with their good-spirited and unabashedly wholesome stuart little , offers something that the whole family can love . many of the kids' movies that are released theatrically feature nothing but walking product placements as in pokemon : the first movie . the live-action stuart little , starring a digitally created mouse , is so sweet that it should appeal to everyone but card-carrying members of the bah humbug set . " it rarely works out . " the picture has several really cute lines like these , which unfortunately , are almost all shown in the trailers . the beauty of the film's approach is that all of the characters try hard to ignore the fact that stuart is ( whisper this part ) a mouse . thanks to the special effects artists , stuart is far cuter than any real mouse imaginable . the film's many real cats , with their artificially moving mouths , are not nearly as successfully rendered , and they are 99% real . michael j . fox voices stuart with wonderfully sweet innocence and spunk . filmed by guillermo navarro in the brightly saturated colors of an old 1950's movie and filled with warmly nostalgic music , the film is a treat for the eyes and ears . the delightful movie is directed by rob minkoff ( the lion king ) and written by gregory j . brooker and m . night shyamalan ( the sixth sense ) . one might say the script was based on the classic e . b . white books , but that would be stretching the truth . as my son and i discussed in the car afterwards , the movie has the characters but little more . don't take this as necessarily negative . my son said he thought the story was much better than the book . i would not go that far . references to other movies are featured prominently in the storyline . sad , poignant and funny , the movie makes you care about the brave , little rodent with human clothes . it is rated pg for brief language ( a single use of the word " damn " i think ) and would be fine for all ages . the only possible reservation is that the dark chase scenes in the park might briefly scare those under 5 . my son jeffrey , age 10 , absolutely adored the movie , giving it an enthusiastic * * * * . he said it was " such a sweet , lovable story " and that " it really kept you into it . " 
the best of the segments are absolutely mesmerizing , but the worst of them are seat-numbingly tedious . but like most motion pictures , the prop department never stocks umbrellas , a fact which never ceases to amaze me . although the movie has a cast of thousands , the stories are really individual ones . to underscore this , the film's killer score starts with a long and loud rendition of " one is the loneliest number . " in a fascinating performance likely to get an oscar nomination for best supporting actor , tom cruise is frank t . j . mackey , a motivational speaker for sex-crazed men who aren't getting enough . when he demands coffee in one scene , the reaction is that , if ever a man didn't need caffeine , it is frank . generally frank doesn't think much of woman as people , but he does see some value in them . robards , an actor whose talents i find highly limited , gets way too much screen time for my taste . although the film starts with great momentum , anderson loses it all by dragging it out just past three hours . the last hour , especially , is a real snoozer . never even attempting to bring the stories together into a satisfying whole , anderson instead ends the movies with a ridiculous conclusion introduced completely out of left field . magnolia runs way too long at 3 : 02 . it is rated r for strong language , drug use , sexuality and some violence and would be acceptable for older and mature teenagers . 
as they sit properly on her shag-carpeted floor , they enjoy some " negro music , " something ben has heard little of . but liberty heights isn't some heavy romantic tragedy a la " romeo and juliet . " instead , it's another light-hearted comedy from writer and director barry levinson . sure , it's about discrimination in everything from swimming pools ( " no jews , dogs or coloreds allowed " ) to the numbers racket , but any movie in which a jew dresses up as adolf hitler for halloween doesn't expect to be taken too seriously . the characters are likable , but their development keeps coming up short . when levinson finally introduces some creative tension in the story's last act , it feels contrived and awkward . nevertheless , the movie on the whole proves more attractive than the sum of its parts . levinson divides the world along sharp racial lines in his story with the jews referring to the gentiles as " the other kind . " overcome with all of this whiteness , he can't eat . most of the film's jokes don't amount to much with ones about the size of male private parts being prominent . " life is made of a few big moments and a lot of little ones , " ben explains in voice-over . levinson's movies like diner , tin men and avalon celebrate the little ones . and liberty heights is an attractive , albeit modest , addition to the levinson collection . an innocent picture that is on the mild side of most pg-13 movies , it would be fine for kids around 12 and up . 
the city's inhabitants , much like those in the recent end of the world picture , last night , have a fatalistic view of their future . as the prim and slightly silly lilly , juliane k ? hler gives a strong performance with equal measures of fiery passion and frightened vulnerability . the result is a love affair that's never quite convincing . more effective are the film's impressive atmospherics . like saving private ryan , the movie is bracketed by appearances of lilly today . " i want lots of 'nows' , " she said , and she lived her life accordingly , regardless of the bombs or the gestapo . aimee & jaguar runs 2 : 05 . the film is not rated but would be an r for sex , nudity and some violence . it would be acceptable for older teenagers . 
it is a small negligence on alice's part not to watch the child for just a few moments , but it has cataclysmic consequences . it tears alice's already miserable life asunder . elliott , who sometimes lets his movie meander , stages the scene of the child's death with particular poignancy . the ending of this scene will literally tear your heart out , and , yet , the way it is presented is completely natural and unmanipulative . no , not about the drowning . this entire episode has chilling parallels with recent , well-publicized cases of massive , false child abuse complaints . weaver , who is in most of the scenes , makes the picture rise above the ordinary . willing to look quite unattractive and to play a remarkably unsympathetic character , she gives a frightening picture of someone on the verge of losing it all in more ways than one . in an otherwise hard hitting film with conspicuous ambiguity , the ending wraps things up a bit too neatly . but after you leave the theater , you'll quickly forget the film's few shortcomings . you'll be thinking instead about weaver's strong performance as a woman on the edge . it is rated r for some sexuality and language and would be fine for most teenagers . 
andrew bennett's richly melodious narration injects so much honest humor that you'll likely view the movie with dry but sympathetic eyes . " when i look back on my childhood , " the narrator tells us , " i wonder how my brothers and i managed to survive at all . it was , of course , a miserable childhood : the happy childhood is hardly worth your while . the star of the production is poverty itself . and the kids live in filth and muck , although the parents manage to stay fairly clean . this level of destitution , malnutrition and misery makes typical cinematic poverty look downright luxurious in comparison . in a limited role that offers few opportunities , watson is called upon just to endure . watson does it so well that she will likely get her third oscar nomination . the most amazing part of his role is that it's a sympathetic one . and the bond between frank and his dad is genuine and touching . picture postcard ireland makes few guest appearances in the film , which has more in common with fantasia's sorcerer's apprentice segment than a travelogue . michael seresin's fascinating cinematography looks like the film stock was developed in the streets' dirty rainwater , which perfectly reflects the mood of the story . john williams delivers a dramatic score that's a bit over the top at times , but fits in with the dramatic bleakness of the storyline . each is so well cast that it's hard to choose a favorite . all of them portray frank's chief trait -- he's a survivor . far from a perfect film , the script by laura jones and the director , tries to pack in too much material and too many incidents . the director lets his movie drift when it should be kept more tightly focused , and the final cut of the film is easily a half hour too long . still , it possesses an impeccable honesty and humanity that speaks to our hearts and our minds . it is rated r for some profanity , nudity , sexuality and violence and would be fine for most teenagers . 
a loose collection of slow and pretentious stories , the film has such flowery dialog that it can be laughably silly . but this haunting series of tales about unsuccessful searches for love has a remarkable visual poetry that draws in the viewer . with frequent full-frontal nudity , the film is also unabashedly sensual , even if the lovers are uniformly unhappy . the stories are glued together with the character of a director , played by john malkovich , who appears to be in a post-film funk after wrapping up his last movie . the director muses on the importance of that exact number . it's a film like that . these actors are given the toughest lines to say with conviction . ( " i am enslaved by your silence , " silvano tells carmen . so much for that story . this strangely intriguing film is set in a cold , bleak , off-season europe , full of gloomy gray skies , heavy fog , rain and thunder . a slightly erotic and decidedly offbeat movie , beyond the clouds has a strong attraction that is hard to put into words . a frustrating film , it is simultaneously bizarrely fascinating and soporifically unsatisfying . the film is in english , italian and french , with english subtitles . it is not rated but would be at least an r for nudity , sex and language . it would be acceptable for mature high school students . 
in disney's the tigger movie , tigger is busily searching for a tree , but not just any tree . in a world in which every kid's movie works hard to morph into a full-fledged family movie by blending woody allen adult humor with star wars special effects , the tigger movie is a delightful throwback to a simpler time -- a time when every kid's movie didn't feel obligated to throw in vague sexual innuendoes and transparent bathroom humor and a time when the animation didn't look like it was prepared on computers sophisticated enough for nuclear weapons simulation . this charming little picture , based on the beloved a . a . milne children's books , sets itself a modest goal of entertaining a crowded room full of squirming youngsters and attains it admirably . ( actually , just keeping a bunch of little kids in their seats with their eyes transfixed to the screen is probably rather an ambitious goal , as any parent can attest . ) the more amazing part of the simple story is the pleasant effect that it has on the adults . without a single line that they can call their own , the old fogies in the audience will find themselves just as touched by these wonderfully sweet characters . granted , not a lot happens in the movie , but the drawings are handsome and the characters compelling and lively . tigger , voiced by jim cummings , who also does the voice of winnie the pooh , does what tiggers do best , which is lots of bouncing . a high-spirited and good-spirited character , tigger is a character who deserves his own movie . among the latter , a particularly good example has tigger describing his little buddy roo as " lacking in the perpendicular . " the gorgeous animation uses picture book images rather than realism in the drawing . this gives the movie a lush look that reminds you of illustrated books from your childhood . the movie sometimes comes back to the book itself and lets the drawings on the pages come alive . among the show's other delights is a song-and-dance dream sequence featuring rows of tiggers performing in everything from chorus lines to synchronized swimming . the message of the film is an old-fashioned one lifted straight out of the wizard of oz : there's no place like home . like the rest of the movie , it's a sweet and simple theme , which is delivered with understated delicacy . the tigger movie runs just 1 : 16 . it is rated g and has nothing to offend or frighten anyone of any age . my son jeffrey , age 10 , gave the film * * * and remarked that it would be great for all ages . he couldn't think of anything he didn't like about it . on the edge of her seat through most of the picture , she stared in big-eyed delight at it . 
acting like loud-mouthed frat boys , these guys work the phones cold calling other guys to offer them deals that , correctly , sound too good to be true . that's it . " and if you not willing to lie and cajole every second , you're not cut out for their firm . in his one emotional scene towards the end , his acting comes across as awkward and staged . but the film's bright script and crisp pacing more than compensate for this weakness in the casting . " clean up your life , then we can talk . " but they don't appear to enjoy it much . " you're got to admit to yourself it's not charity work and enjoy it or get out , " she advises him . the ending is wrapped up too neatly and conventionally , but , up until then , the movie takes you on an exhilarating ride . the spirit of the film is best encapsulated in the only extracurricular activity that the guys really seem to enjoy . the film would be acceptable for older teenagers . 
director frankenheimer keeps his foot firmly and confidently on the throttle , and the bright and humorous script by ehren kruger creates characters as funny as they are genuine . even when the story twists and turns with its series of double crosses , it always feels honest and somehow plausible even if outlandish . with so many movies these days misusing great casts and so many scripts having trouble creating credible characters , it is refreshing to watch a picture that lets the audience have a high old time without insulting the viewers' or the actors' intelligence . gary sinise's villain is at once frighteningly vicious and quite charming . like most of the rest of the characters , his gabriel seems constantly in jeopardy of being out-conned . as the plot advances , she just keeps getting better and better , and no scene tops her poolside one . the script is full of little pulp fiction like moments . one of the best has one of gabriel's tattooed henchmen reading a businessweek article on stock investing strategies . although the film relies more on the dialog than the sight gags for its laughs , some of the costuming is deliciously funny . the pi ? ces de r ? sistance are the costumes that the guys wear for the big job . reindeer games runs 1 : 45 . it is rated r for strong violence , language and sexuality and would be fine for older teenagers . 
the movie , written and directed by damian harris , is based on david l . lindsey's novel . as the director and one of the film's leads , peta wilson , told us at the screening , both the book and the movie were thoroughly researched . all of this notwithstanding , the story's weakness is that part of it seems too outlandish to be credible . on the other hand , most viewers will not have frequented such palaces of pain and so will have no real idea as to the story's accuracy . vickie explains that sex for her is like putting your head in the mouth of the most vicious lion at the zoo . a mixture of sex , secrecy and seduction runs through the film as does the commonality of child abuse as an underlying cause of many of the characters' actions . scenes move with a deliberate slowness , accentuated by mesmerizing music and handsome cinematography . sometimes the editor switches to a slightly slowed motion to further enhance the mood . the intriguing film is at its best when it sticks to its roots as a crime drama with the investigation parts being the picture's highlights . the sexuality works at times , but too often dissolves into a kind of psychobabble . in a film without a lot of laughs and one in which the s&m world frequently looks too glamorous , catherine's second in command , lt . fritch ( beau starr ) , pokes fun at it all . " doesn't anyone have good old-fashioned sex anymore -- missionary position , then watch television afterwards ? " he asks . not in vickie's world since they're only interested in sex if it's laced with as much danger as possible . it would be acceptable for high school seniors . in a picture with much gruesome violence , it was the brief hint of oral lesbian sexuality that caused them the most trouble . wilson though it was stupid since she said that she clearly just kissed barkin's hip . ) 
sipho is seen holding a bloody hatchet . the beauty of the script , which mixes in large doses of witchdoctors and rural superstitions , is that it is always genuine and plausible . the audience is never asked to suspend disbelief . the writer ties this into the main story thread without its seeming awkward or contrived . rather than making some big revelation towards the end , he stays clammed up . the moving film , with its superb acting , doesn't pull a fast one on us in the end . just when you are worried that the writer will do something that you'll regret , he doesn't . the story ends satisfyingly with the same grace and logic with which it began . it is not yet rated but will probably be pg-13 or r for some violent images . the film would be fine for teenagers . 
director roger nygard , whose last film was the hilarious documentary called trekkies , this time makes a fictional film , suckers , about car salesmen . the picture is such an honest and effective comedy that hbo has not only bought his movie , they've also committed to make a series based on it as well . nygard said the two films that influenced this picture the most were glengarry glen ross and clerks . the foul-mouthed , scary and funny sales meeting certainly pays homage to the first of these two pictures . actually most of reggie's comments are unprintable . as much as it is easy to ridicule all of reggie's advice , much of it applies to everyone with a sales job , although one hopes that most people in sales are a bit more humane . many of the car selling techniques you probably have experienced yourself , but others may surprise you . jj even had the same lovable , gregarious manner about him . the director said that they spent over three months in the casting of all of the parts so that the movie would feel genuine , which it does . " never apologize for it ! " one thing is certain , the energetic movie tries hard to be the best that it can be , which is a lot of fun . it is not yet rated but will undoubtedly be an r for language , sex , nudity and violence . the film would be acceptable for older teenagers . 
if you wanted to redo your past , how would you know what to change ? this research isn't as straightforward as it seems . at her house , the story first demonstrates its ability to surprise and delight the audience . some things that seem obvious prove to be anything but . these surprises make for some of the movie's best humor . using flashbacks , dream sequences and alternative versions of what could have been , the movie keeps the momentum going and the film never sags . there are also lots of delightful little subplots , including one about jesse , who is a professional chef , which concern his ability to cook without an oven . radiators , light bulbs and dishwashers prove perfectly acceptable substitutes for a traditional oven . although dead , anabeth , gets the most screen time through frequent flashbacks . her funeral provides the equivalent of the movie's big game conclusion . the good-spirited film doesn't try to provide big insights into life , although the messages are there nonetheless . the fun picture , which is happy just to entertain us , gives us more than our money's worth of laughs . with so many big budgeted hollywood films being so bad , it's nice to see the producers of a modestly budgeted picture trying to rock the boat by distributing the film themselves outside of the studio system . if the film comes to your area , don't miss it . and if it hasn't yet , ask for it . it isn't rated but will undoubtedly be an r for sex , nudity and language . the movie would be fine for older teenagers . 
brian de palma , who hasn't made a decent movie in over a decade , surprising shows with mission to mars that he can still be as good as he once was . ( actually , given its intensity , a pg-13 might have been more appropriate , but that's a minor quibble . ) in a film that pays homage to many other science fiction films that have gone before it , most notably 2001 : a space odyssey , mission to mars manages to feel fresh , not derivative . an imaginative and magical film , it has a mesmerizing effect on the audience as it builds slowly toward the big secret . de palma's staging choices are truly inspired . this sequence dazzles with a gossamer beauty . another breathtaking scene concerns a space walk gone bad . using the quietness and solitude of space , de palma gives us a disaster in real-time that feels like slow-motion . half of the time it is lovely , and the other half it is gratingly inappropriate . a few of the scenes are delicately funny . it is rated pg for mild science-fiction violence . the film would be appropriate for kids 11 and up , although many younger ones might enjoy it as well . in the san jose area it will be playing at the amc and the century theaters . 
what do you get when you blend grand opera , theater of the absurd and gladiators ? in the only sport with script writers , composers , costume designers and directors , professional wrestling is unabashedly just pure show business . it's a spectacle that p . t . barnum would have loved to own . after the wwf's recent ipo , you can even buy a piece of it yourself . barry w . blaustein's documentary , beyond the mat , takes a loving but honest look behind the curtain to show us how this bizarre piece of entertainment is operated . the " sport " is so popular that the documentary about it is getting released to commercial theaters rather than art houses , something relatively unheard of in the world of docs . it is a dangerous endeavor . the blood you see is real , as the combatants do such things as take metal chairs and pulverize their opponents' heads . the pain is no less intense because it is carefully scripted . from the times of the romans , we know that there has always been a market for watching people being subjected to such incredible abuse . blaustein's documentary is hilarious -- frequently frighteningly funny . most of the stars or would-be stars of the wwf have some schtick in order to stand out . one newcomer has a skill that impresses the ceo of the wwf , which is still a family business even though it's publicly traded . " but , what if you weren't born with the skill of projectile wrestling ? " the film , which is mesmerizing in the first thirty minutes , quickly runs out of ideas . as fascinating as the first part is , the rest of the movie is way too repetitive . some segments have no resonance . we can be sorry for her , but the inclusion of the material just feels awkward . still , the first part of the film is more than worth the price of admission . actually watching 30 minutes of it and then walking out wouldn't be a bad strategy . you would have great fun , and staying will not add much . beyond the mat runs too long at 1 : 42 . it is rated r for strong violence and language and would be acceptable for older teenagers . 
mike nichols' what planet are you from ? is a good-spirited little comedy that takes its audience from smiles to snickers to big laughs as it pokes fun at human philosophy , emotion and sexuality . if this unique show has any roots it is as a social satire version of 1984 but set in the future . the script by garry shandling and michael leeson is full of smartly-written , bone-dry humor . ( " you appear intelligent , but when you open your mouth , the effect is spoiled , " is one of the film's typically acute observations . ) perhaps the hardest thing to believe in the movie is why anyone would cheat on her . ) " you're marrying a woman you haven't had sex with ? " " aren't you scared ? didn't you see the crying game ? " the film's on-going joke is that harold's penis hums loudly when he is sexually aroused , which is often . sounding like a cross between an electric pencil sharpener and a small hand-held fan , his organ hums loudly , which is taken as merely an eccentric oddity by his would-be conquests . with squeaky clean sets and a wry sense of humor , the film has jokes that get funnier the more you think about them . although it's not a message movie , the story has more than its share of commentary on how ridiculous we human beings can be . what planet are you from ? it is rated r for sexuality and language and would be acceptable for older teenagers . 
chalk . it's an unimportant and cheap commodity for most . not one less , about the value of persistence , is a simple , slice of life tale set in modern-day china from director yimou zhang ( ju dou and shanghai triad ) . but , only if all 28 are still there and " not one less . " their math skills are shown to be lacking -- being off by a factor of 10 turns out to be a common problem . although it may be a cynical view , it isn't clear even then if she really has any aspirations beyond making some money . poverty can be hardening , and most american poverty would look like abundant luxury compared to what wei has to endure . one thing is never considered . she never cares and neither does the movie . not one less runs 1 : 46 . the film is in mandarin with english subtitles . it is not rated but would probably be a g as there is nothing to offend anyone of any age . 
in this sweet screwball comedy , trixie has never met a sentence that she couldn't fracture . ( " you've got to grab the bull by the tail and look it in the eye . " " i've got an ace up my hole . " ) one of the movie's chief delights is listening for what will come out of her mouth next . all of the cast nicely complement watson , as it is her movie , and watching her is a real treat . from breaking the waves on , she has shown that she is an actress with an amazing breadth who never gives anything less than her all . with trixie we learn that she can be funny as well as dramatic . it is rated r for some language , sexuality and violence and would be fine for most teenagers . 
most teenagers show more maturity and good judgment than that with which you normally credit them . you don't have to hold their generation in ridicule in order to make a movie about them . their emotions do not have to be parodied . the chemistry between the two is real and touching , and director mark piznarski concentrates on the basics . and he has both of them spend significant amounts of time being pensive and thoughtful , an attribute rarely seen in movies , especially those featuring teens . the story opens without much promise , looking like just another formulaic picture . most of klein's performance is quite nice , but his big scene in the greenhouse comes across surprisingly flat . in here on earth she literally makes the picture as she does most of the heavy lifting for the film's romance . sobieski's performance as sam is so natural that she barely seems to be acting . " that's what it is . you have much bigger things ahead of you . " the movie works best when it keeps the focus on the lovers and away from the subplot of the town versus the school . although there are some nice little pieces of dialog in that part ( " my probation didn't say anything about me spitting out watermelon seeds with you people . " ) , we've seen this part too many times before . the poignant film with its slow and tender rhythms has delicately moving music to match . some aspects of michael seitzman's script , such the diner's " lover's wall " and the character's penchant for quoting robert frost ( " one could do worse than be a swinger of birches . " ) , could be criticized as schmaltz . but , within the context of the romance , they end up being touching instead . this film , filled with good messages , has a little underage drinking -- 3 beers to be precise . but , surprise , it shows that such activities , even in relative moderation , can have negative consequences . the story's tragic last act , which is hinted at early-on , adds dramatic tension and wraps up the drama with an emotional punch . although effective , this story element makes it all too easy for cynical critics to write off the movie as mere soap opera , ignoring the honest romance that occupies the body of the movie . so how do you shock a teen audience brought up on films like american pie ? our audience , chock full of teens , was aghast at the meadow scene in here on earth . what was the action that caused our teens to cry out in shock ? it is rated pg-13 for some sensuality and thematic elements and would be fine for kids around 9 and up . given the film's romance angle and its pacing , kids under 13 , however , will likely not be interested in it . 
a watermark -- why didn't he think of that ? american psycho is a dark , dark comedy that feels like it was directed by alfred hitchcock on overdrive and scripted by the marquis de sade for a late night movie on the comedy channel . in a masterful performance , christian bale approaches his role with utter seriousness . one of his favorites is an axe with a handle that looks like platinum . luckily , the script is quite funny , which keeps the film from becoming unbearably intense . a sterling cast nicely complement bale's marvelous work . reese witherspoon plays evelyn williams , whom he describes as " my supposed fianc ? e . " patrick's life is rather like the nightmare dream sequences found in other movies . it won't . filmed in cold , steel blues and complementary warm skin tones , the movie looks great . my main problem with the film is a simple one . why did they even bother cutting a few scenes -- sorry about the pun -- in order to get an r rather than an nc-17 rating ? an nc-17 would have been a much more honest and appropriate rating for a film with such extremely black humor and explicit violence . the studio should have just marketed the movie as something for adults and bragged in the ads that it had to be an nc-17 . so what if some movie theaters won't show nc-17 films , and some newspapers won't advertise them ? if ever there was a movie that isn't for everyone , it is american psycho . like very bad things , which featured unabashedly morbid humor , american psycho is a treat for the adventuresome filmgoer . it is rated r for strong violence , sex , nudity , drug usage and language and would be acceptable for people 18 and up . 
both the movie and the book use newspaper accounts of a string of macabre events along with striking still pictures to tell the mesmerizing story of a town gone mad . with extensive live recreations along with judicious use of period photography , the movie weaves a creepily fascinating mystery . after everyone in the audience laughs at this ridiculous wives' tale , watch their eyes dart about the room looking for just such ears . it is not rated but might be r for violence and would be fine for teenagers . 
this smartly written farce doesn't contain a single instance of bathroom humor and no one falls down drunk . in short , it's sweeter , more intelligent and more fun than its average american counterpart . silvio muccino , who shares writing credits with the director , plays a charming but unsure youth named silvio . they clearly want to wave their same che guevara flags and shout their same tried-and-true slogans . the final proof of the difference in how the two nationalities approach romantic comedy among teens can be found in the casting . american films cast the most voluptuous females for the teen roles . the film is in italian with english subtitles . it is not yet rated but will probably be an r for some profanity and sexuality and would be fine for teenagers . 
what if you had married your mr . ( or ms . ) right ? what would your life be like now ? would it be a dream or a nightmare ? in writer/director pip karmel's me myself i , pamela drury gets to find out . or does it ? griffiths does a masterful job of portraying pam's fear and jubilation . " mom , if you don't get your period , do you have to use a condom if you're having sex , " stacey asks in a casual hall conversation . here is a girl who does not need to earn extra money . the biggest surprise with the script is the way it subtly transforms the movie from a breezy little comedy into something more substantial . by the end we find ourselves , along with pam , pondering significant issues ranging from self-actualization to the importance of love and family . me myself i is a gentle movie that works its magic more by the small turns in the plot than the large ones . by the end , you'll be rooting for pam , while still not sure what is best for her . the story's resolution is handled nicely and with just the right amount of ambiguity . me myself i runs 1 : 44 . it is rated r for sexuality and some language and would be acceptable for teenagers . 
although mocked by television's talking heads as being not of presidential timber , emerson is ready to think the unthinkable and do the undoable , as he announces that he will drop the atomic bomb on baghdad in less than 2 hours . safe topics for movies these days range from dysfunctional families to teen comedies . in deterrence writer/director rod lurie tackles a subject , nuclear war , that has become pass ? . although lurie deserves credit for going where recent filmmakers have feared to tread , his picture is rife with flaws , so much so that it is easy to write off the entire film as completely ridiculous . this , however , would be a mistake for , whatever its shortcomings , the movie creates palpable tension and riveting actions . if one scores the film like a boxing match , it would most certainly lose on points . still , it will have you glued to your seats even if you are smugly thinking that this couldn't happen . it is against that backdrop that the movie should be evaluated . although written off by many as jingoistic nonsense , the movie raises many interesting questions even with its numerous shortcomings . what if kennedy's military intelligence in the cuban missile crisis had been wrong , as spying by its nature so often is ? would history have viewed his administration less like camelot and more like a mortuary ? luckily , we'll never know . and this is where the movie makes the first of its many spectacular blunders . as the cigar chomping president who seems to genuinely like schmoozing with his constituents , pollak delivers a subtly nuanced performance . tough and resolute , he isn't sure himself whether he's playing the hand right , but he figures that he has to take the approach that he has . perennial supporting actor pollak , last seen in the whole nine yards , proves that he can carry a movie on his own , even one with a semi-silly script . hutton , who is called upon to deliver the movie's most ridiculous speech about how iraq is the home of the garden of eden , is marvelously slimy . much like a stage play , the movie happens almost entirely in the diner . this claustrophobic atmosphere , however , works to the advantage of the story as it heightens the tension . as people become explosive in the face of such a crisis , their actions become a bit more understandable . although perhaps just a guilty pleasure , the movie has more than enough for me to be able to recommend it . on the other hand , if the preposterous parts of the body of the story drive you crazy , the ending will undoubtedly have you going ballistic . it is rated r for some violence and language and would be acceptable for teenagers . 
as you sit watching bonnie hunt's adult fairy tale , return to me , it's easy to convince yourself that this old-fashioned romance must be a remake of some 1940's movie . with its sweetly sappy scenes of love and courtship , it tells a delightful story that is a throwback to a simpler time at the cinema . then it hits you . this can't be remake of something that you saw decades ago because the kickoff point for the plot concerns a medical procedure ( heart transplant ) that hasn't been around very long . this is where the magic in the plot comes in . when bob first lays eyes on grace , both smile and feel like they've met before . the chemistry between the lovers is genuine and never rushed . the parts of the script that challenge the pg rating are the intensity of the early tragedy . sex isn't part of the storyline . the result of the discovery is predictable , but who cares . this heart-warming movie ( pun intended ) is an unabashedly sentimental love story , not a mystery . return to me runs 1 : 53 . it is rated pg for language and thematic elements and would be fine for kids around 10 and up . my son jeffrey , almost 11 , liked all of the movie except for the initial tragedy . giving it * * * , he said that he found the movie hilarious and that he especially liked seeing carroll o'connor . 
love and basketball is a terrible title . as soon as you hear it , you expect the movie to be another lame , teenage romantic comedy , which are a dime a dozen at the cinema with most as forgettable as last week's lottery numbers . i'm happy to report that writer/director gina prince's love and basketball is an ambitious and successful film that isn't a teen comedy at all , although the two charming leads , sanaa lathan and omar epps , do pass through their teen years as part of the story . another delightful surprise about the film is that the writer takes an african-american cast and avoids the clich ? s that most such films of late have fallen into . either they bulk up on stupidity and profanity ( as in trippin' ) or they gloss it up so much ( as in love jones ) that the characters are completely unbelievable . and both of the leads are endearing and eminently likable . even if the trajectory of their lives has some predictability , the details have one surprise after another -- just like real life . but , this first romance of theirs doesn't last long . to be fair , lathan steals the show from a charismatic epps . rather than have both characters be superstars , the script wisely imbues them with different skill sets . the chemistry between the two is interesting and unusual . not surprisingly , they eventually become lovers , and you would be disappointed if they didn't since they clearly need each other and are so right for one another . the pros , in particular , will not be quite what they or you might have imagined . along the way the movie teaches some important moral lessons , but it is done subtly and never ends up feeling like sunday school . with two stars that you come to care about deeply , the movie's ending isn't unsatisfying just because it contains a fair amount of predictability . but , like the rest of the story , the writer manages to sneak in lots of little surprises . by the end , it's kind of hard to believe that monica and quincy are fictional . and i , for one , would very much like to hear about their next 4 quarters . it is rated pg-13 for sexuality and language . although the profanity was reasonably mild , some of the sexuality stepped over the bounds of what one would reasonably expect to find in a pg-13 film . losing one's virginity , even if we are shown that they practice safe sex , does not belong in a pg-13 movie . absent this scene and a couple of others , however , it certainly deserves a pg-13 rating . but with these scenes i do not think it is appropriate for kids under 13 or 14 . 
" i never had anything i was good at , " says stacy valentine about her growing up . everyone wants to be good at something . it's human nature . it's an activity practiced with pleasure by most of the world's adult population -- sex . but , unlike most of us , stacy found a way to make a living at it . most viewers are ready for a documentary that will ridicule stacy , or at the very least , patronize and marginalize her . but , sex is another matter entirely . the most shocking part of the documentary is how stacy really does seem like the innocent girl next door . good documentaries make you think , and this got me to thinking about the parallels with another movie , without limits , based on the life of the famous runner steve prefontaine . one of the most gruesome parts of that movie was when we see him pushing himself so hard in the service of his sport that he turns his feet into bloody pieces of raw meat . so it is with stacy . berns says that stacy , who loves watching herself on screen , cannot stomach these scenes and has vowed never to have such plastic surgery again . like a runner , the life of a porn star doesn't last long so stacy pushes herself in ways most people would never consider . then again , traditional hollywood stars have been known to invest quite a bit in such reconstructive surgery . the movie , however , isn't some dry compendium of talking heads followed by carefully covered porn scenes . this sexually explicit , but not graphic , movie is extremely funny , thanks to the fugate's approach and choice of subjects . we find that the carefully controlled filming of pornographic movies is not without hilarious incidents . in another scene we hear how the director has the male lead count off , " one-mississippi , two-mississippi , etc . " so that his orgasm is precisely timed . and the director barks out orders to his camera operators about keeping everything in focus , as the stars are faking great passion . stacy's arc in the film has a certain predictability . it is not rated but would be an r for strong sexual content and language and would not be appropriate for those under 19 . 
even though the picture may be criticized for being a fictionalized composite of various events , it's probably closer to the truth than many films that claim to be true stories . regardless of this , it is most certainly an exhilarating and satisfying thriller that will have you on the edge of your seat once the battles begin . the movie's only serious flaw is that director jonathan mostow ( breakdown ) , who shares the writing credits with sam montgomery and david ayer , lets his movie drift at first as he takes too long setting up the plot . but , after the movie finds its sea legs , you won't have time to catch your breath in this first action movie of the summer . ( okay , i know it's only spring , but this film , with it's realistic battle sequences , is a big budget , summer thriller even if it arrives in port a bit early . ) this simple plan goes seriously awry , setting up a wonderful , classic war sequence that takes place mainly underwater in a sub as it is being attacked . the tension is palpable , causing your adrenaline to pump like crazy . as captain dahlgren , bill paxton gives the movie's only wooden performance , arguably because of his stilted dialog . his xo is played by the film's star , matthew mcconaughey , who turns in one of his most convincing pieces of acting , eschewing his tendency to superciliousness ( amistad , for example ) . if there is one part of the movie that best captures the film's essence , it is the realistically frightening depth charge scenes . an imaginative captain can help , but basically you have to wait and pray that they will miss you . one of the few unabashedly patriotic movies in some time , u-571 pays homage to our brave soldiers who fought and died in a world at war . and it lets you vicariously feel some of their trauma as they wonder if each moment will be their last . it is rated pg-13 for war violence and would be fine for kids around 12 and up . 
with john mathieson's stunning cinematography , hans zimmer's music reminiscent of a wagnerian opera , art max's lavish sets and with extensive computer graphics , scott has some impressive ingredients with which to work . a red-blooded film , it works magnificently in its fighting sequences as people are sliced and diced faster than you can count them . a virile motion picture , it's the happiest when it's the goriest . it's great in the ring and on the field of battle , but most of the movie concerns roman political intrigue that's as foreign to american audiences as the machinations of today's ever-changing italian governments . although it picks up toward the end , most of the movie has you slumping in your seat as it drags on . action pictures should be measured by how often you are on the edge of your seat , and in gladiator this almost never happens . an especially lame villain , phoenix doesn't show any depth . similarly nielsen , last seen in mission to mars , approaches her role with lackluster simplicity when an ambiguous duplicity would have been more interesting . the two actors sap the energy out of any scene in which they appear . and the ones with only them in it are the worst of all . the result is that what could and should have been a great film turns out instead to be merely an adequate one . only the film's look and crowe's usually wonderful performance causes it to rise above the ordinary . gladiator runs way too long at 2 : 30 . it is rated r for pervasive strong violence and would be acceptable for older teenagers . 
opera , basketball and prejudice : an unlikely combination for any film , especially for one set in small town america towards the end of world war i . rich cowan's the basket is a simple and poetic film whose magic comes from many sources , particularly two beautifully understated performances by peter coyote and karen allen . the director makes the bold assumption that the audience has both intelligence and patience . in a film filled with messages -- " to defend a mighty wall , each one must fight for something small , " the opera says -- most are delivered with quiet delicacy , leaving the viewers to ascertain the fullness of their meanings and their portent for the story at hand . " i thought the war for us had finally ended , but it hadn't , " helmut explains in voice-over . with a bostonian accent as thick as helmut's german one , mr . conlon sticks out like a peach basket nailed up to a wall . things having not advanced much , that's exactly how the teacher introduces the game to his pupils , who had barely heard of the sport . this creates a buzz of excitement in the village because he dribbles out the story like episodes of a soap opera . " or any place for that matter . " filmed frequently with the warm glow of the setting sun , the rolling pastures of washington state look invitingly bucolic . this little filmed area of the united states clearly deserves to have more movies set there . although the journey is the reward in this movie , its big game ending manages more surprises than you'd ever expect , one being the half-time refreshments of the other team : beer and big cigars . even the game's slower pacing , which matches that of the movie , possesses an undeniable charm . a heartfelt motion picture , the basket is a delightful film worth savoring for those willing to take the time to enjoy its methodical rhythms . it's a film that gives family entertainment a good name and one that will have you still enjoying it in your memory after you leave the theater . it is rated pg for some mild violence and brief language and would be fine for all ages . 
it's a comedic romance with the comedy used as a relaxation device to put you in the mood for love . several couples are in the process of forming relationships , and all of the relationships are touchingly genuine , thanks to the meticulous direction and to the delicately effective script by alexandre machado and fernanda young , based on s ? rgio sant'anna's novel . most motion pictures believe that significant love stops around 35 and isn't reborn , except for some patronizing films about senior citizen romances . the film is set in rio , which is shown so gorgeously , particularly in the scenes set at dusk , that you may feel compelled to consult your travel agent after the picture is over . barreto's brilliance can be seen in the way he stages the scenes . you see , he comes from a long line of tailors . he literally listens to the fabric to grade it and to determine how best to use the material . but she's more flattered than interested . the profanity lesson is the movie's funniest episode since it's done so sweetly . it's also one of the few fast paced scenes in the picture , which usually takes its time . most movies fail when they become too ambitious in the number of plots and subplots , but bossa nova never overreaches . every character is worth caring about , and every romance is worth our attention . the film's dreamy , old-time music invokes memories of the movie romances from the 1940s . there is even a dream sequence in which the two leads take a spin around the dance floor , actually mary ann's classroom . even the smallest details are carefully designed to reinforce the story's romantic mood . the contrasting clothes include some of the best looking , and best tailored , suits that you've ever seen on pedro and some of the flashiest silk shirts on ac ? cio . not all of the relationships turn out exactly as you might guess and some are left not completely resolved . nevertheless , the good-spirited story leaves you with a warm glow . a very satisfying film about the possibilities and the joys of love , bossa nova shows what can happen when romantic comedies tone down the comedy and accentuate the romance . the result can be splendid . the film is in english and in portuguese with english subtitles . it is rated r for language and some sexual content and would be fine for teenagers . 
in an era of rapid technological change , the film industry stands out as a veritable dinosaur . so it is all the more noteworthy when a film like disney's dinosaur makes such a stunning visual achievement through radical blending of technologies . combining some of the most sophisticated computer-generated animation that you've ever seen with ( digitally enhanced ) live-action backgrounds , the ground-breaking film becomes a dinosaur documentary on steroids . it is the sort of picture that has you sitting there going , " wow ! " what are sorely absent , however , are pixar and their band of merry men to craft a script that can hold your attention . the result is a story that is a pale imitation of the land before time , which had more endearing characters and more effective humor . still , it's not that the script bombs , but that it fizzles . there are several nice sections of dialog , and some imaginative characterizations . but when a disney film leaves one nostalgic for the land before time , that's not a good sign . the way to approach dinosaur , however , isn't to ponder how good it could and should have been , but to enjoy what it does best , which is to recreate the world of the dinosaurs toward the end of their reign on earth . best of all is the realism shown in the skin of the dinosaurs , which has a texture so life-life , that you'll swear they've located real dinosaur flesh and digitally imposed it on computer generated wire-frames . this magic extends to all of the textures including those of the dinosaur's comical sidekicks , a group of lemurs , whose fur can be seen convincingly blowing in the breeze as the lemurs leap from tree to tree . " things like that eat things like us for snacks , " he admonishes them . " this monster's got no teeth , " zini points out . scariest of all are some chillingly realistic carnotaurs , which look like t-rexs , who roar a lot and eat everything in sight . this brings us to the issue of the film's rating . disney's animated motion pictures are almost always rated g . in order to make the movie as authentic as possible , disney allowed the filmmakers to bring dinosaurs in at a pg rating . but it is an extremely intense pg that has significant potential to scare little ones . these carnotaurs would have been happy to nosh on little humans , something that the small fry will easily be able to imagine . and when the meteors hit , it may look like the end of the world to impressionable youngsters . the rest of the storyline follows a formula so cast in stone that it could have been written by a computer . maybe it was . the movie's press kit proudly brags about what a technical tour de force it is . and rightly so . since software designers use the word " dinosaur " as a derogatory term , the irony of this claim has a delicious charm to it . although one can argue whether knowing the amount of code means anything , it did bring to mind the technical genius that went into the production of dinosaur . even if the film has shortcomings , its visuals are nothing short of incredible . it is rated pg for intense images and would be fine for kids around 8 and up . parents with kids who frighten easily should carefully consider whether their children are ready for this picture . my son jeffrey , age 11 , loved the movie , giving it a full * * * * . he particularly liked the computer generated animation . he said that he enjoyed it when the movie scared him a little bit . 
movies about mormon missionaries might seem likely to get the same reaction from non-believers . in the case of god's army , viewers who shut the cinematic equivalent of the door in its face will be depriving themselves of a surprisingly good film about faith and dedication . like a high quality blend of a documentary and an after-school television special , this low-budget , fictional film creates a host of interesting characters and provides a lot of surprising background on what it means to be a mormon missionary . although you may have never given them a second thought , they don't have an easy vocation . " isn't it funny how a few short days can change your whole life forever ? " he tells us in voice-over in the opening . ( there are too many references to the wizard of oz in the script , which otherwise , is sharp , intelligent and humorous . ) it's an interesting metaphor and one of many in the thought-provoking script . always polite but not one easy to say " no " to , he has answers for all occasions . " i think that if you're not interested in what we have to say , then you must not know what we have to say , " he tells one person who naively thinks that expressing non-interest will make the missionaries leave . there is certainly one thing that isn't likely to come to mind when people think of mormon missionaries , and that is that they could be big practical jokesters -- not to their would-be converts , but to themselves . in a movie that is frequently quite funny , one of the best scenes has a guy telling elder allen on his first day that he is going to get his gun if they don't leave . the story doesn't skirt difficult issues . the role of women and minorities are discussed as well . the good-spirited and informative picture is well-cast throughout even if the acting is sometimes amateurish . a moving and quite funny film , it isn't at all what you might expect . but be warned : after seeing it you may not be able to quite so efficaciously shoo missionaries from your doorstep . knowing more about them makes them more human and more deserving of basic human politeness . it is rated pg for thematic elements and some language and would be fine for anyone old enough to be interested in the subject matter . 
a kidnapped princess , 100 , 000 pieces of gold and jackie chan's exhilarating stunts : if you think that these sound like the perfect ingredients for a high old-time at your local cinema , you're right . as they say in commercials , " but wait , there's more ! " ( this permits the story to subtly but effectively explore the rampant racism in that period in our history . ) last , but not least , jackie is perfectly matched with owen wilson , as a sidekick who can best be thought of as the anti-jackie . owen's character is as unsure and lazy as jackie's character is bold and energetic . his ladies are all women in red who occupy a bordello so chaste that it could appear in a pg-rated picture . ( shanghai noon is a mild pg-13 . ) " that's not going to work . " well , something that certainly does work is the chemistry between these two charming actors . even if their characters are opposites , their eventual friendship is as genuine as is the rough road to it . acting a bit like mel gibson -- the writers collaborated on mel's lethal weapon 4 -- roy doesn't leave all of the physical antics to chon . " i don't know karate , but i know crazy , and i will use it , " roy explains . as always , jackie dazzles the audience with his good-spirited stunts that are choreographed with ballet precision . with his baby-faced looks and his broad smile , he would be a hard actor not to love . and when he gets hurt , as he often does while doing his own stunts , you can truly feel his pain . in every movie he manages to find fresh approaches to the fighting sequences . this time he wields everything from moose horns -- sans moose -- to a horseshoe on a rope . it is perhaps a little know facet of jackie's oeuvre , but jackie is just as funny when he isn't showing off his athletic dexterity . shanghai noon's funniest sequence -- even more so than the wonderful outtakes -- has chon and roy taking a bubble bath in adjoining tubs . they ham it up singing a drinking song that it is side-splittingly funny . the movie's delights don't end with the acting and the script . thanks to daniel mindel's lush cinematography and randy edelman's old-fashioned western film music , the movie is a real treat for the eyes and ears . a thoroughly enjoyable film , it is ( arguably ) jackie's best movie ever . shanghai noon runs a fast 1 : 45 . it is rated pg-13 for action violence , some drug humor , language and sensuality and would be fine for kids around 8 and up . my son jeffrey , age 11 , adored the movie , awarding it a full * * * * . he said that he thought it " was really funny , yet in a cool sense . " 
as directed by john swanbeck and written by roger rueff , based on his play , the big kahuna will immediately remind you of glengarry glen ross , adapted by david mamet from his own play . although not as good or as raunchy the mamet film/play , the big kahuna is no less ambitious . sometimes seeming to bite off more than it can chew , the film dares to ask many questions but provide few answers . what it does most successfully is showcase spacey and devito's acting talents . appearing to be some sort of born-again christian , he feels that it's his obligation to turn conversations , including those with customers , toward his lord . the story , which takes no religious sides , makes his character the most intriguing and the biggest enigma . one could easily read into his character that he represents salvation , but there are other possible interpretations . " competition isn't as stiff as it used to be . " a likable cynic , larry loves to taunt bob and ridicule religion in general . " i don't drink . between the three of us here , we're practically jesus ! " basically a filmed play , the movie happens almost entirely in a single room , which is both a blessing and a curse . although it can be claustrophobic , this approach focuses our attention on the acting and the script and away from such diversions as supporting characters , props , camerawork and all of the other trappings of traditional motion pictures . most films would quickly become stuffy with this limiting approach , but it is a tribute to the sharpness of the acting and the dialog that the big kahuna rarely does . in fact , it is only when the director tries to open up the play just a bit by including a few brief dream sequences that the movie goes seriously awry . in one of the movie's best interchanges , phil suggests certain possibilities to larry . it is rated r for language and would be acceptable for most teenagers . 
although bearing a passing similarity to reindeer games , casino and rounders , croupier's story isn't the least bit derivative . with a sleek look and feel , the movie has stylish atmospherics and a detached approach that is a far cry from the typical in-your-face hollywood production . the characters are intriguing , but they never feel the need to beg you to like them or to insult you to get you emotionally hooked . the intricate plot doesn't require any knowledge whatsoever of gambling , and such insight information might be a detriment anyway , causing you to pay too much attention to uninteresting minutia . as it is in high fidelity , it is the best part of croupier . but whereas high fidelity is definitely a comedy , croupier is sort of a thriller . more than anything it is a character study with some nice little twists involving disreputable punters ( gamblers ) , croupiers and casino managers . croupier does has some humorous moments with perhaps the best being a brief bit concerning another author working for jack's publisher . these twists form key parts of the labyrinthine plot , but the enjoyment is in observing them more than in anticipating where they are leading . in croupier , the journey itself is truly the reward . croupier runs a fast 1 : 31 . the film is unrated but would be an r for sexuality , language , dope smoking , brief nudity , some violence and adult themes . it would be acceptable for older teenagers . 
he's a cynical human being who thinks he can manipulate opinion at will -- after all that's what he does for a living and he's the best at it . although russ is supremely proud of his conspicuous accomplishments , rusty isn't so pleased to learn how his life has turned out . rusty wails . i grow up to be guy with no dog ! " " i'm a loser ! " the chemistry between the two actors is delightful . physically they look like such an odd pairing that their relationship will never work , but it does beautifully . you can see the mutual respect in their eyes . the script by audrey wells ( the truth about cats and dogs ) is funny without ever being insulting or patronizing . avoiding slapstick almost entirely , the script is remarkably intelligent and sharp . " when i look at him , i see awful memories , " russ tells amy about rusty . " memories that i've spent my life trying to forget . " the kid is obviously there for a purpose . but what exactly ? the conclusion wraps things up well and without ever trying to become frequency 2 . disney's the kid is a unique little movie with a big heart . you'll laugh , you might even cry , and your heart will be touched -- something that probably isn't the least bit obvious from the saccharine and sort of silly trailers for the picture . a satisfying movie , it is wonderful family entertainment as well , although very young viewers may get very fidgety as the ones did at our screening . but for the older kids and the adults , the movie has a lot to offer . disney's the kid runs 1 : 41 . it is rated pg for mild language and has nothing to offend any one of any age . he found the film funny , cute and really sweet and gave it a full * * * * . johanna , who also gave it * * * * , was bursting with positive adjectives , ranging from fantastic to hilarious . maxim thought it was funny and gave it * * * . the odd man out was alan , who gave it just one * , calling it really stupid and dumb . 
a stylish piece of film noir , it has exasperatingly slow pacing but devilishly demented characters and a wonderfully wicked , labyrinthine plot . characters die , or do they ? the coen brothers make interesting movies . most people know their most famous picture , the oscar winning fargo , but even the brother's failures ( the hudsucker proxy for example ) contain large flashes of brilliance . they claim to have taken out some of the boring parts and added in a bit as well . but the running time is about the same and the movie seems little changed with the exception of a hilarious introduction . the print is clean and the sound sharp . as the movie opens , a supercilious film preservation expert in his library pauses in his reading and pipe smoking to provide us a little history about the film . he explains that the movie was a tremendous success and started the entire indie craze . after this delicious bit of satire , the director's cut segues nicely into the original story . " not really , " meurice replies . the intriguing script is much better than the directing , and one is left with a strong wish that the coen brothers had done a much more meticulous job of excising the boring parts in this director's cut . still , it is a fascinating little tale and amply demonstrates the talent of these filmmakers . ( for a little extra fun , listen carefully and see if you can recognize the female voice on marty's answering machine . it's an uncredited role , and the actress does not appear in the movie . ) blood simple runs a remarkably slow 1 : 37 . it is rated r for violence and would be acceptable for most teenagers . ( there is only a single scene that will have viewers squirming . ) 
as directed by john singleton ( rosewood ) , the remake of shaft far surpasses the original , which starred richard roundtree . the movie is a perfect summer film , completely enjoyable with lots of action . like the old westerns , this popcorn movie features a good guy who kills bad guys left and right without worrying about any rules . criminals in shaft don't have any miranda rights or any other rights for that matter . the film's body count is in the dozens since shaft doesn't shoot to wound , and he certainly doesn't miss . when you mention shaft , most people just think of its theme music , which this remake uses to advantage . besides opening with the theme to get us in the mood , it cuts back to it periodically to reenergize us . of course , with action this lively , it isn't clear that we ever need our batteries recharged . the simple plot has two major threads . christian bale , last seen chillingly as patrick bateman in american psycho , is perfectly cast as walter , a depraved preppie . since bale is so good at playing nefarious characters , my single complaint about the picture is that we did not get to see more of walter's villainy . wright delivers a fascinating performance that manages to become even more mesmerizing by his godfather-like speech . with a thick accent and talking like he has marbles in his mouth , wright crafts a unique character . don't be surprised if wright is talked up for an oscar nomination for his supporting role . but along the way , if dozens of criminals have to die , well that's the way it is in the old west or in the ghetto . some movies stretch our imagination and build our intellect . some just give us a good old-fashioned time at the theater . shaft is happy just to do the latter . shaft may not tax your brain , but it will tickle your funny bone and give you ample opportunity to cheer the good guys and hiss the bad . it's pure , unadulterated fun . it is rated r for strong violence and language and would be acceptable for older teenagers . 
rather than trying to tell the whole story of the war , it concentrates on one man's struggle and on the role of the militia . within this limited scope , it succeeds handsomely . its only shortcoming is that the final cut includes too much fluff and minor romances . at a half-hour shorter , its impact would have been dramatically heightened . " i haven't got the luxury of principles . " mel gibson delivers an understated but strong performance , bringing humanity to a role that could easily dissolve into caricature . with his convincing expressions of grief and dedication , we empathize with his plight . in contrast , another of this summer's would-be action heroes , george clooney ( the perfect storm ) , was so wooden in his delivery that we didn't care what happened to his character . the music by john williams ( star wars ) is strong and effective but never overwhelming . the movie whets our appetite for more movies about the revolutionary war . it is , arguably , the most important time in our country's history but , sadly , one of the most ignored by filmmakers . maybe , just maybe , this picture will inspire the creation of many others about this period . one can hope . it is rated r for strong war violence and would be fine for teenagers . given the low test scores of our teenagers on american history , they should all see this movie . besides teaching them , it might encourage them to learn more about this era . 
on this , the 60th anniversary of that classic , sweetly hokey , but delightful romantic musical , love's labour's lost from 1940 , the studio is re-releasing it so that this generation can savor its charms . based on the shakespeare play of the same name , the movie features more song and dance numbers than you can count . you do remember it don't you ? the biggest production number is set to " there's no business like show business . " the famous songs include : " i get a kick out of you , " " just the way you look tonight , " " when we're out together dancing cheek to cheek , " " let's face the music and dance " and " they can't take that away >from me . " directed by kenneth branagh , the large cast includes kenneth branagh , alessandro nivola , alicia silverstone , natascha mcelhone , matthew lillard , adrian lester , timothy spall , nathan lane , stefania rocca , richard clifford , emily mortimer and carmen ejogo . okay , so i lied . this is actually a new movie made very much in the spirit of an old one . complete with a great film score and rich , oversaturated colors like the old technicolor prints , this new film is an audacious homage to the musicals of old . it even has an esther williams-style synchronized swimming number . the decidedly amateurish production is actually more interesting because of it . it is easy to picture yourself singing and dancing along with the actors . " hey , if they can do it , so can i , " you'll find yourself thinking . the weakest part of the script is the play itself , not one of shakespeare's better efforts . but this isn't a problem since , most of the time , the players are singing their hearts out and not speaking elizabethan english . it is undeniably fun , however , to hear alicia silverstone ( clueless ) uttering such lines as " i am too sudden bold . " it took a lot of guts for the cast to do this , knowing full-well that many critics would make fun of them since most do not appear to have had the proper musical training . the result is a good-spirited film that makes you want to sing and dance . how many movies have done that for you lately ? people are always asking me why they don't make musicals any more . well , they do -- sometimes . this is one of the few , and it deserves a good-sized audience . unlike bad teen comedies and gory action flicks , which play for weeks and weeks , the run of musicals is , sadly , very short . it is rated pg for sensuality and a brief drug reference and would be fine for all ages . 
years it has been since you enjoyed the wonderful escapist pleasures of comic books , you can relive those happy times of your youth by watching suspects ) . based on the comic books of the same name , first-time screenwriter david hayter has come up with a remarkably lucid tale given the complexity of all the characters and their various skills , powers and motivations . as the story opens , it looks like it will be another pokemon , in which the only ones who can decipher what is happening are long-time veteran viewers of the series . hugh jackman steals the show with his compelling performance as the story's main fighter , wolverine . all of the performances are quite good , including the work by the leads , stewart and mckellen . the fast-action fighting sequences are imaginatively choreographed and fascinating , rather like watching gladiators with different weapons going after each other . and the movie is smart enough to inject just enough well-placed humor to keep it from ever flagging . after this engrossing battle , the movie makes its only small mistake , it takes too long setting up for the sequel . just a hint would have been enough . if they will make it , we will come . and would be fine for kids around 12 and up , depending on their ability to handle a film of this intensity . my son jeffrey , age 11 , thought it was great , giving it * * * * . his favorite character was wolverine , and he had a long list of things he liked about the movie . steven's twin john thought it was only kind of exciting and gave it * * 1/2 . none of them found it too violent , but i'd still be careful about the movie when taking preteens to it if they are sensitive to violence . 
tammy faye bakker , " the first lady of christian broadcasting , " was at the center of the biggest real-life soap opera of the 1980s . the documentary argues convincingly that the only sin of tammy faye , a likeable little dynamo , is her unquestioning naivet ? . the villain of the piece turns out to be jerry falwell . whether this represents the ultimate truth or not may never be known , but the documentary offers compelling evidence to support its case . all of the above notwithstanding , the reason to see the movie is to meet a fascinating and resourceful woman with a very interesting background . although the title refers to tammy's signature heavy eye make-up , it could be titled the eyes of the viewers since your eyes will be glued to the screen in this intriguing tale . in an age in which reality programming is popular , this movie would seem to have arrived at just the right moment in time . forget daytime soaps , none could be better than this movie . these humorous puppets are appropriate since jim and tammy's first television show was a christian broadcast done howdy doody style . the remarkably good-spirited documentary offers up lots of opportunities to laugh but none are at tammy faye's expense . the internecine warfare among the leaders of the christian broadcasting community is shown to be much more vicious than outsiders would ever imagine . an unabashed believer in the importance of happiness in worship ( " we believe that we were one of the first people to put fun and joy in religion . " ) , if he isn't shown to be quite as likeable as tammy faye , jim still comes across as an ambitious man with a good heart who made some mistakes . in short , he just appears human , and high profile political figures guilty of much more than he have thrived . most of all , tammy faye is a survivor . jim j . bullock , a gay comedian and , at one time , tammy's television talk-show host , says it best about tammy faye's skills . it is rated pg-13 for some sexual content and would be acceptable for any kids old enough to be interested in the material . 
the replacements , a surprisingly funny comedy , is inspired by the 1987 professional football players strike . director howard deutch , who has directed films from pretty in pink to the odd couple ii , and writer vince mckewin ( fly away home ) are perhaps an odd choice for a sports comedy , but they have come up with a thoroughly enjoyable piece of entertainment . a good-spirited and energetic film , it flies by with few pretentious moments . only in the occasional serious interludes and in the throw-away romance does its momentum ever sag . " i've seen monkeys at the zoo that were more organized that this , " says o'neil , while shaking his head during the disastrous start of the replacements' first game . you're a never-was . " " you know what separates the winners from the losers , kid ? " falco retorts . with characters that are walking clich ? s , the director doesn't apologize for them and lets us laugh with them and at them . since they are only going to be there a few weeks , the athletes don't take themselves too seriously . ignoring the axiom of the day that only crudeness sells at the theaters , warner brothers offers a pg-13 movie that , even if it has a few raunchy moments , can respectably display the pg-13 label . parents will not be embarrassed that they let their kids see it , which isn't the case with so many of the recent pg-13 releases that once would have been considered a definite r . the film's sexual humor comes from its parody of professional cheerleaders . the auditions are funny but nothing like the game sequences which are hilarious due to the background of most of the new recruits , whose normal jobs includes skills such as lap dancing . they are so " good " that they prove an effective distraction to lure the opposing players' eyes away at a few crucial moments . notting hill's quintessentially unsexy rhys ifans is perfectly cast as a welsh soccer player named gruff . the out-of-shape , chain-smoking gruff is a great place-kicker willing to try 65-yard goals . like the other members of the team , he's also quite funny . unlike so many other recent sports movie , oliver stone's confusingly-edited any given sunday , for example , the editing in the replacements is lucid , and it is easy to follow the action and get involved in the details of the game . it is a fun moment that captures the essence of this sweet little picture . the replacements runs 1 : 54 but seems much shorter . it is rated pg-13 for some crude sexual humor and language and would be acceptable for kids around 10 and up . my son jeffrey , age 11 , had a great time watching it . giving it * * * * , he said it was hilarious . he thought the plot was cool and the football was great . he laughed loudly and cheered frequently . 
set against the backdrop of a decades-old communal bathhouse , the story celebrates the simple pleasures of life , not the least of which being a long soak while kibitzing with your old buddies . the movie opens with a suited gentleman getting quickly cleansed in a fully automated shower , almost exactly like a car wash . this sweet little film charms us with its innocent images while never becoming saccharine . as it explores father-to-son and brother-to-brother relationships , the script and the acting do not have a moment that doesn't ring true . -- one guy cheats . the sweetly innocent times are interrupted by a story that harkens back to an even simpler time still . in a remote mountain region of china , it rains less than once a year we are told . among the many delightful subplots is one concerning a shower singer . he belts out " o solo mio " with foghorn intensity so long as the water flows . the problem with such buildings , points out one of mr . liu's regulars , is that crickets don't go above the ground floor . after watching shower , progress doesn't look quite so sweet anymore . the official reason for its being rated pg-13 is for " language and nudity . " well , excuse me . i don't recall any profanity and the nudity comes from some very discrete glimpses of men's rears in the bath . to lump this in with crude pg-13-rated films like the in crowd and big momma's house is a travesty . consider shower to be a pg film . it should be fine for any kid old enough to be interested in the story and able to read the english subtitles -- the film is in mandarin . 
if it hadn't been for john glenn's recent space flight at age 77 , the plot might seem completely ridiculous . instead , the script makes the old team's goal and flight seem remarkably plausible . ( these " geriatric " astronauts are supposed to be about 69 , but you'll notice that in real-life jones is a good bit younger at 53 . beautifully directed by eastwood , the movie has two distinct parts . the first half is an inviting and good-spirited comedy , that is deliciously underplayed and that rarely dissolves into slapstick . the second half is an exhilarating action drama set in space . just watching these old actors work together is worth the price of admission . the brightly written script by ken kaufman and howard klausner successfully creates four unique lead characters . he's a take-no-guff kind of guy . " go ahead , take your best shot . " corvin , your country needs you , " ethan argues . " put a sock in it , sonny ! " " maybe you should try to get your money back ! " frank retorts with a classic eastwood sneer that would melt steel . the four's creative fudging supplies many of the best laughs . there is also a fatalistic humor in that everyone they ask about seems to have died . rivaling eastwood for the movie's best performance is tommy lee jones , as daredevil pilot hawk . no one can fly a plane as well as hawk , but there's been bad blood between frank and hawk for 40 years now . there are lots of subplots , including a romance between hawk and a nasa engineer ( marcia gay harden ) , and most of them work quite well without needlessly complicating the story . the film's special effects are quite credible . looking authentic but not overly glamorous , they nicely compliment the story rather than dominating it . what a wonderful contrast this movie makes with typical movie fare these days . rather than having another in our weekly releases of bad-to-mediocre teen comedies , we have an intelligent and funny picture featuring people who have real acting experience that's measured in decades , not years . let's hope that this starts a trend away from bad movies , whose only claim to fame is their demographics , and toward good films with experienced , really experienced , actors . it's probably too much to hope for . after all , we've raised a generation who thinks that all movies end in a prom sequence , and that all jokes must involve crude references to some bodily fluid . it is rated pg-13 for some language and would be fine for kids around 9 and up . it is also a good movie to take multiple generations to see . it's the kind of film that it's fun to view again . 
from audacious director paul verhoeven ( starship troopers , basic instinct and showgirls ) , hollow man is erotic , fascinating , imaginative , gory and , yes , a bit scary . the sexually charged script by andrew w . marlowe ( air force one ) uses this romantic triangle as a key subplot . the movie's special effects are amazing . graphic and gory , they show animals and a human going in and out of visibility . try as you may , you will not be able to look away , just like you have to see car accidents even if you know you should cast your eyes away . the script is as humorous as it is inventive . sebastian , for example , tells a great ribald joke involving superman and wonder woman . the movie plays up to men's secret voyeuristic desires -- want to see that gorgeous woman next door ? just slip in unannounced and unseen . -- so men may find the film more exciting than troubling . bacon is creepy and cocky . he plays the type of character you love to hate . " you make it by seizing the moment . " she is clearly an actress who should be cast more often . the film's opening sequence of an innocent mouse being eaten alive by an invisible predator serves notice of what is coming up . if you were expecting some innocuous and cute invisible man movie , you are warned that this isn't it and that you should quickly head for the exit . for those who stay the movie is great fun . the film even thumbs its nose at the mpaa rating board . knowing that the mpaa will allow frontal nudity in an r film so long as it's not male nudity , the director shows bacon's penis flapping as he walks . but it is done with a thermal image so that it can be argued that it wasn't really shown at all . " what would you do if you knew you couldn't be seen ? " an intriguing question which hollow man explores in some obvious but thought-provoking ways . " don't even think about it , " he says about something that he knows he shouldn't do . only in the end , when the film dissolves into a cross between aliens and a typical slasher flick , does it ever let us down some . but in the film's defense , it never takes itself too seriously , so that even the concluding segment is enjoyable . the real difference is that the ending doesn't have quite the freshness of the rest of the picture . it is rated r for strong violence , gore , language , nudity and sexuality and would be acceptable for older teenagers . 
in the easiest film to enjoy this summer , jenniphr goodman's good-spirited the tao of steve tells the story of a lovable philosopher who attracts women like honey even if he's way too big for his own good . the versatile donal logue ( the patriot ) , who seems to show up in a supporting role in most movies lately , gets a rare starring role this time and makes the most of it . oozing charm from every pore , the sweet dex is a chatterbox philosopher with a purpose -- picking up chicks . being a steve myself , i , of course , know these things , but i'll explain them to you in case you don't . syd , one of the most genuine characters you're likely to see in the cinema , is played by greer goodman with the organic good looks of someone you might meet at a health food store . she has a philosophy too -- " just say no to nudity . " -- that meshes exactly with dex's , who is embarrassed by his body's superfluous 100 pounds , which he jokes is more like 200 extra . generally , however , dex and syd's chemistry together is great , albeit generally negative . " am i supposed to remain celibate while i bask in the warm glow of your annihilating contempt ? " he asks tartly . " doing stuff is overrated , " dex tells syd , and then goes on to point out how much better the world would be if hitler had been more laid-back . to be fair , dex has thoughts on more subjects than sexual pursuits . the formulaic plot ends up exactly in the satisfying way that you would expect , but you'd be disappointed if it didn't . one of the funniest parts of the movie may be missed by moviegoers who have never gone back to one of their school's reunions . anyone who hasn't gained weight stands out like a sore thumb . trust me . i know . i came back a 100 pounds lighter . my ex-schoolmates looked at me like they figured that i had contracted an emaciating and soon-to-be-fatal disease . it is rated r for language and some drug use and would be acceptable for most teenagers . 
steal this movie ! ( the title is guaranteed to strike the same terror in the hearts of video store owners when the movie makes its way to video that abbie hoffman's book , " steal this book ! " the unabashedly one-sided movie by director robert greenwald , a friend of abbie and anita hoffman , is a lucid and intriguing tale of perhaps the most famous of the vietnam war protestors . freed from any pretense of objectivity , the fast-paced movie creates a flattering story as the late abbie hoffman might himself have told . " dull is deadly " , abbie explains as the rationale for his outlandish theatrics . vincent d'onofrio turns in an energetic and endearing performance as the charismatic , smart abbie hoffman , a self-described " long-haired , revolutionary freak . " the strong supporting cast includes donal logue , who appears in every other movie this summer and in various sizes from his pillsbury dough boy in the tao of steve to his more modest size this time as stew albert , abbie's best friend . kevin pollak does a nice turn as gerry lefcourt , abbie's savvy and tolerant lawyer . bruce graham's bright script , based on books by abbie and anita hoffman and by marty jezer , is funny and insightful . " if you don't like abbie's mood , wait a minute , " anita tells johanna about abbie , who was eventually diagnosed as a manic-depressive . ever the philosopher , abbie's mouth is a shotgun of ideas . the movie does a marvelous job of authentically capturing the look and mood of the period . the movie dichotomizes the people in abbie's life into either friends or enemies , with the former being the world's good guys and the latter being the bad . the police , especially the fbi , are uniformly depicted as little better than the gestapo . too often , films with strong political agendas present us with false alternatives rather than admitting that they are really only telling one side of the argument . steal this movie ! works precisely because it stays strictly true to its opinions . you may not subscribe to them , but you'll understand them much better after seeing the picture . and you'll gain fascinating insights into the life of someone you may have never even cared about before . but , most of all , you'll have a high old time while reliving one of our nation's more turbulent eras . steal this movie ! it is rated r for language , drug content and some nudity and would be acceptable for older teenagers . 
" power to the people and punish bad cinema ! " cecil b . demented is another deliciously over-the-top movie by that bad boy of indie films , outrageous writer and director john waters . although his last picture ( pecker ) was a disappointment , most of his movies , such as serial mom , are real treats . and this latest one of his is perhaps his best ever . melanie griffith , delivering her first good performance since , well , i don't remember when , plays the lead , a self-absorbed star named honey whitlock . honey coos sweet nothings to the press but , behind the scenes , is a trash-talking bitch . waters has the audience in stitches with the opening scene , which shows a multiplex whose films , according to the marquee , are star wars , star trek , star wars , star trek , star wars and star trek . these titles and others dissolve into the film's credits . keep your eye out for other marquees during the movie . the best advertises patch adams : the director's cut . ( since honey is kidnapped , much like patty hearst was , waters , in perfect bad taste , gets patty hearst to play a cameo part in the movie . ) the movie is filled with film industry in-jokes . " now i only have one problem . " a scene inside a porn house playing one cherish's movies is one of cecil b . demented's funniest sequences . waters even comes up with a catchy little song and a motto , " demented forever , " that will likely stay with you and remind you of this wacky and thoroughly enjoyable movie . so what is the ultimate insult to a deep , deep underground director like demented ? a prudish looking , family-film aficionado tells demented that , " you're direct-to-video . " oh , the pain ! it is rated r for strong crude sexual content , violence , language and drug use and would be acceptable for older teenagers . 
so , " bring on the water , " he says is what most black folks think . he also says that no black band would be so dumb as to continue playing as the ship goes down . instead , they'd be trying to float the furniture for lifeboats and blow on their handkerchiefs for sails -- anything that might work . harvey is the king of the kings in the original kings of comedy , a documentary by famed director spike lee . the concert audience was 98% black , whereas our movie audience was widely mixed . the surprise was that humor directed at a black audience turns out to have a strong resonance with all races . our audience members were in stitches throughout . part of this could be explained by the non-racial humor . the devil certainly would have required less . other jokes have to do with poverty , such as dealing with a bill collector when you can't pay . ( " 'when should i expect payment , ' the bill collector wanted to know . 'you pick the date and then we'll both be surprised . ' " ) other bits of humor illustrate the differences in racial experiences . and bungee jumping . no way would a black engage in that . it's way too much like lynching . the humor is foul-mouthed and quite raunchy , but it comes across as remarkably sweet , nevertheless . perhaps , it is because the comedians are so good-spirited and frank . one of my favorites has harvey bemoaning the lack of " old school music . " as the audience literally dances in the aisles , he plays some of this music . lee has the camera panning the audience to give the movie some of the electric energy and fast-paced spontaneity that the members viewing the concert live must have felt . these scenes feel staged and awkward . the movie attempts racial humor that most people would avoid with the proverbial ten-foot pole . " tell 'em , i ain't got it . but there is also celebration of black achievement . the original kings of comedy runs 1 : 57 . it is rated r for language and sex related humor and would be fine for older teenagers . 
" isn't it exciting ? " you used to complain that nothing happened . " it is an erotically-charged morality tale with the message that actions have consequences and horrific actions have horrific consequences . is it just for sadomasochistic sexual gratification as it certainly seems ? this is a girl with a very twisted sense of morality . she cries profusely for a rabbit that they run over but has no sense of remorse over slicing up a human being like a piece of meat . filmed beautifully and scored well musically , the picture alternately invites and repulses us . the most sickening scene turns out to be the skinning of a rabbit , as its flesh is ripped off its body . it is the type of movie that , the more you describe it , the more your readers want no part of it . but this is a fascinating film with chillingly believable acting . and with plenty of surprises along the way . suffice it to say that they would have been much better off if the police had found them first . if ever there was a movie that isn't for everyone , it's criminal lovers . but if you find really dark sexual thrillers intriguing , criminal lovers may be the picture for you since they don't get much darker or more erotic than this . it is in french with english subtitles . the film is not rated but would probably be nc-17 for nudity , language and strong sexuality and violence , including rape . it is for adults only . 
" isn't it exciting ? " you used to complain that nothing happened . " it is an erotically-charged morality tale with the message that actions have consequences and horrific actions have horrific consequences . is it just for sadomasochistic sexual gratification as it certainly seems ? this is a girl with a very twisted sense of morality . she cries profusely for a rabbit that they run over but has no sense of remorse over slicing up a human being like a piece of meat . filmed beautifully and scored well musically , the picture alternately invites and repulses us . the most sickening scene turns out to be the skinning of a rabbit , as its flesh is ripped off its body . it is the type of movie that , the more you describe it , the more your readers want no part of it . but this is a fascinating film with chillingly believable acting . and with plenty of surprises along the way . suffice it to say that they would have been much better off if the police had found them first . if ever there was a movie that isn't for everyone , it's criminal lovers . but if you find really dark sexual thrillers intriguing , criminal lovers may be the picture for you since they don't get much darker or more erotic than this . it is in french with english subtitles . the film is not rated but would probably be nc-17 for nudity , language and strong sexuality and violence , including rape . it is for adults only . 
aviva kempner's the life and times of hank greenberg opens with " take me out to the ball game " sung in yiddish , which made it my second movie with yiddish in a single day . hank greenberg , an amazing athlete , was the first jew to make it big in the major leagues . it makes the point that all ethnic groups were harassed on the field , but , being the only jew , greenberg suffered more than the others like the italians and the irish . some of the film's talking heads , such as famous liberal lawyer alan m . dershowitz , see conspiracies afoot against greenberg . many of the interviewees are labeled simply as " fan . " greenberg's focus generally wasn't on the more glamorous and traditional home runs or batting average . the movie commendably and honestly spends almost as much time on greenberg's failures as his successes . people remember his big plays , but the film reminds us too of those times when he missed the key hit or the essential catch that could have won one of the big games . this approach gives the documentary a heightened sense of credibility . as much flack as greenberg got , he said that nothing he experienced was as bad as what robinson had to endure . it is not rated but would be a g and has nothing to offend anyone of any age . 
writer/director raymond de felitta's two family house , set on staten island in 1956 , is a delightful movie that works on two levels . on the other , it is a richly evocative drama that easily wins your heart . full of honest moments , even if always told with a comedic flair , the film feels like a blend of a true story and a fairy tale . buddy didn't , but julius larosa did , and buddy has forever since regretted it . estelle isn't wild about the bar idea and even tries to spend them into bankruptcy at one point so that buddy will be forced to give it up . she doesn't think much of buddy or his pals , referring to them as " a bunch of knuckleheads . " this also makes mary into a social pariah , accorded status below that of a streetwalker . " you're a broad , " he replies in his typical , 50s macho vernacular . " you're supposed to cry . " the film is narrated by her son as an adult , giving it an extra dose of realism . the film's lush score by stephen endelman matches perfectly the bright and happy primary colors of michael mayers's cinematography . the vintage automobiles are so overly perfect that they are like a running joke . every car is spotless and looks like it just left the dealer's showroom . " i've got talent ! i could be somebody ! " buddy screams at estelle in lines reminiscent of marlon brando's famous ones . buddy is an everyman character , whose big dreams may never come true , but realizing his smaller ones may prove just as satisfying . it is rated r for language and brief sexuality and would be fine for teenagers . 
heard any good stories lately ? think any of them are true ? jon shear's edgy thriller , urbania , loves to mess with our minds , and it has lots of stories to tell us . set on a night with a built-in extra hour due to the daylight savings time shift , the episodic story has characters who relate incidents with varying degrees of believability . the reaction of the characters hearing the stories frequently reveals more about them than about the teller . sometimes nervous laughter will be followed by painful introspection . the disorienting film takes devious delight in layering various versions of the stories so that we feel like we're jurors looking into a courtroom lined with funhouse mirrors . what are we supposed to believe ? one thing certain in this intriguing and distorting tale is that our eyes are glued to the screen . the wonderfully labyrinthic script by daniel reitz and jon shear is based on reitz's play " urban folk tales . " one story , about a woman with a wet poodle and a microwave , is thrown in as the story's only real joke . the script is especially good at not telegraphing which stories have legs and which end almost before they begin . even the most minor of these incidents are staged with such creepy class that they become quite intriguing . it's the sort of film in which even innocuous phrases such as , " don't forget to set your clock back , " manage to have dark , ominous portents . the crisp editing by randolph bricker and ed marx keeps us on our toes as images sometimes flash by like a hit-and-run and others times linger to haunt us . and shane kelly's cinematography captures the mood almost too well . nightmares after this film are definitely possible , not so much for what happens as for the movie's raw intensity . " just give me a second to figure out the ending , " charlie tells us at the opening of the movie . the biggest disappointment for me was that urbania doesn't really have an ending . and for adventuresome moviegoers , urbania takes us through a fascinating night when danger is definitely in the air . urbania runs a little long at 1 : 43 . 
heard any good stories lately ? think any of them are true ? jon shear's edgy thriller , urbania , loves to mess with our minds , and it has lots of stories to tell us . set on a night with a built-in extra hour due to the daylight savings time shift , the episodic story has characters who relate incidents with varying degrees of believability . the reaction of the characters hearing the stories frequently reveals more about them than about the teller . sometimes nervous laughter will be followed by painful introspection . the disorienting film takes devious delight in layering various versions of the stories so that we feel like we're jurors looking into a courtroom lined with funhouse mirrors . what are we supposed to believe ? one thing certain in this intriguing and distorting tale is that our eyes are glued to the screen . the wonderfully labyrinthic script by daniel reitz and jon shear is based on reitz's play " urban folk tales . " one story , about a woman with a wet poodle and a microwave , is thrown in as the story's only real joke . the script is especially good at not telegraphing which stories have legs and which end almost before they begin . even the most minor of these incidents are staged with such creepy class that they become quite intriguing . it's the sort of film in which even innocuous phrases such as , " don't forget to set your clock back , " manage to have dark , ominous portents . the crisp editing by randolph bricker and ed marx keeps us on our toes as images sometimes flash by like a hit-and-run and others times linger to haunt us . and shane kelly's cinematography captures the mood almost too well . nightmares after this film are definitely possible , not so much for what happens as for the movie's raw intensity . " just give me a second to figure out the ending , " charlie tells us at the opening of the movie . the biggest disappointment for me was that urbania doesn't really have an ending . and for adventuresome moviegoers , urbania takes us through a fascinating night when danger is definitely in the air . urbania runs a little long at 1 : 43 . 
with her innocent smile , milky white skin and tomato-colored hair , she certainly doesn't look like a likely candidate . if there ever was a film genre ripe for parody , it is those goofy 1960s beach movies . laughing along with psycho beach party is silly fun . with not a pretentious bone in its body , the movie pokes fun at the kids' raging hormones and at the homosexual subtext of that genre . with a hall of mirrors effect , the story features many movies within movies , all of which are watched -- where else ? -- at the drive-in theater . florence , deemed less than a chick , earns the nickname of " chicklet . " the movie is full of such deliciously dopey dialog . the picture is wonderfully campy entertainment that doesn't ask anything of its viewers . just kick back and let the laughs begin . it is not rated but would be an r for language , sexual situations and comic violence . it would be acceptable for most teenagers . 
the martini brothers share the writing credits with the film's director , kevin jordan . the third man on a romantic mission is clive winter , played with the most charisma in a consistently likeable cast by veteran actor bill henderson . clive's character , as fascinating and original as it is , is relegated to the side ring . or is it the other way round ? it doesn't matter if you can't keep them straight since the story barely mentions the nicknames . ) any story that uses a female mail carrier as an object of romantic desire deserves some extra credit . " i'll do your taxes . " if there were an undo function for speech , he would have selected it immediately . the good-spirited movie is likeable although forgettable fluff , but its charm easily wins you over , even if its script is a bit thin . its most lasting result , however , is that it makes you want to see more of everyone associated with the production . it is rated r for language , some sexual content and brief drug use and would be fine for most teenagers . 
because the ladies man has one of the worst trailers in recent memory , the more i saw the trailers , the less i looked forward to the film's screening . when it finally came time for the screening , i could barely force myself to go . it turned out to be one of biggest and most enjoyable film surprises i've had in some time . whereas the movie is no there's something about mary , it is extremely funny and wonderfully sweet , although with quite a raunchy brand of humor . directed with good comedic timing by reginald hudlin and written uproariously by tim meadows , dennis mcnicholas and andrew steele , the ladies man stars tim meadows as leon phelps . the movie is like an african-american version of private parts as it relates leon's life story . maybe more . although this material could be crude and offensive , instead it is crude and funny , thanks to meadows's eminent likeableness . with his little , disarming lisp , and his broad smile , he is such an easy guy to love that you can understand women falling for him , even if he isn't the handsomest guy on the block . one of the reasons for the film's surprising success is the casting of leon's sidekick . the supporting cast is well utilized . billy dee williams , playing a bartender , serves also as the story's narrator , giving leon's story a fairy tale rendition . one of the film's delights is a long dance number with the vsa men that seems straight out of an old rodgers and hammerstein musical . it is well choreographed , tuneful and funny . so it is with the movie . go in expecting little and you may find the movie as charming and funny as i did . our half-full audience certainly laughed like a packed one . it is rated r for sexual content and language and would be acceptable for older teenagers . 
previous classes haven't taken eugene's change-the-world assignment seriously , but this year trevor mckinney , a latchkey kid , does . as trevor , haley joel osment , oscar nominee for the sixth sense , is amazing again . this role , however , isn't nearly as meaty as his last ; so don't expect to see any nominations for him this time . " so you'll like flunk us if we don't change the world ? " " no , you might just squeak by on a 'c , ' " eugene shoots back with a delicate mixture of sweet humor and biting sarcasm . one of their mother-son confrontations will have parents ( and kids ) in the audience flinching and perhaps even shedding a tear or two . both spacey and hunt are made to look awful in the service of their craft . arlene , especially after a long night of boozing , doesn't look the least bit like helen hunt . eugene , arlene and jerry share several traits . similarly , eugene lives for the rigidity of his precious schedule . although it is an important adhesive for the storyline , this subplot never provides anywhere near the emotional or dramatic impact that it could have . overall , leslie dixon's script , based on catherine ryan hyde's novel , is much better with the dialog than the narrative . one of the many sharply written interchanges between trevor and eugene occurs when eugene incorrectly thinks that trevor is questioning his sincerity . " do i strike you as someone being falsely nice ? " eugene asks caustically . " no , you're not even really nice , " trevor replies with bitter honesty . although pay it forward has more than enough to be able to recommend it , it does have two significant problems . first , major plot twists are needlessly telegraphed , destroying what would otherwise have been dramatic surprises . second , the acting is frequently too subdued , and you can almost feel the director throttling back her cast . yes , there are some definitely saccharine scenes , but many others that should have had significant emotional impact come across surprisingly lukewarm . this will probably be an unpopular opinion , but pay it forward is that rare movie that would be more effective if it were schmaltzier . pay it forward runs a bit too long at 2 : 02 . it is rated pg-13 for mature thematic elements including substance abuse/recovery , some sexual situations , language and brief violence . it would probably be too strong for most kids under 13 . 
perfectly cast with cameron diaz as natalie , drew barrymore as dylan , lucy liu as alex , and bill murray as charlie's faithful lieutenant , bosley , the movie takes us on a high-energy ride that is pure campy fun . in his feature film debut , music video director mcg doesn't have a clue as to how to tell a story , and all of the writers attached to the project , which include , but are probably not limited to , ryan rowe , ed solomon and john august , are not much help . but this is a film in which you just kick back and enjoy some high kicking gals wallop everything in sight . borrowing liberally from many other films , charlie's angels steals the most from the matrix . in fact , it probably has more slow motion martial arts action than will be in all three matrix pictures combined . cheung-yan yuen deserves a special mention for his supervising of the film's over-the-top martial arts special effects . even if a bit repetitive , they are the second best part of the movie . what really makes the show shine are the three female leads , who are convincingly tough , smart and , most of all , funny . ( yes , there were reports of tension on the set , but the movie shows none of these rumored difficulties . ) as in the james bond movies , sexual innuendo and humorously revealing costumes provide much of the story's merriment . " hey , i signed those release papers , so you can just stick things in my slot , " natalie , with an exuberant and sweetly innocent smile , tells her ups delivery man . all of the boyfriends serve as straight men to showcase the women's their comedic skills . a truly awful cook , alex's worst specialty is her " chinese fighter muffins , " which can be deadly . the movie gets a lot of comedic mileage from joseph g . aulisi's costumes alone . our 3 action heroes are not above providing each other a lot of girlish advice such as " flip your hair " to attract the opposite sex . it works , by the way , but i suspect that having cameron diaz's face is the real key to its success . so is there a story ? yes , but it is so inconsequential and contrived that there's little point in discussing it . this much i will reveal . the producers clearly think , correctly , that the movie will make a bundle so they've made sure that they end it in such a way as to make a sequel possible . all we have to do is ask by buying lots of tickets . my guess is that we will . charlie's angels is far from a great movie , but it is entertaining and fun , which is more than i can say about most recent movies . it is rated pg-13 for action violence , innuendo and some sensuality and would be acceptable for kids around 11 and older . my son jeffrey , age 11 , said that he really liked it and gave * * * . he mentioned how much it borrowed from the matrix . overall , he liked the martial arts but wished that it would have had a little more story . 
although it may have been a more naive era , it was one brimming with sexual curiosity . the sets , the cars , the costumes , everything about the production is authentically nostalgic . he vows to one and all that this summer he is " going to see two people 'doing it' -- no matter what ! " but back then , the mere vicarious pleasure of witnessing sex provided more titillation than a young teen could even imagine . no , it's not at all what you think . it turns out to be something akin to a sex education class , but run by students , that is decades ahead of its time . it is " like a wrestling match on tv , but they're not two men and it's not tv . " well , that certainly explains it all . there is no one whom he would rather catch in the act of doing it than the gorgeous and affable hedy . it is rated r for sexual content and language and would be acceptable for teenagers . 
some people spend time thinking about unions . a lot of people spend time thinking about sex . julia query , a stripper as well as the co-director , is one of the documentary's central characters . the documentary features lots of full frontal nudity , as would be expected . this could be criticized in that it does raise the titillation factor , but , without it , it would be hard to imagine exactly what goes on behind the glass curtain . yes , it is as sleazy as it sounds . once the workers go on strike , they think up some of the funniest slogans and chants you can imagine to popularize their cause . one that is printable appeared on a button : " bad girls like good contracts . " it is intriguing but covers more traditional material . the only questionable choice the documentarians made was to include some simple cartoon figures to illustrate some of their points . they are funny and cute , but the women themselves are more interesting . this is something that could never be said of live nude girls unite ! , a mesmerizing examination of a world that most of us have never seen and never will . the film also provides your one opportunity to say to someone , the ticket seller in this case , " i'd like live nude girls , please . " it is not rated by the mpaa but would be rated nc-17 for graphic nudity and strong language . it would be acceptable for college students . 
steven brill's little nicky , starring box office champ adam sandler as little nicky , is a surprise in more ways than one . starting off abysmally bad , it manages to atone for its early sins and turn into a very funny comedy . the credit for the success of its humor falls on a superlative supporting cast and a director who manages to coax the most out of each of them . the special effects and the humorous sets add immensely to the revelry . one wickedly funny scene features hundreds of charging spiders with adam sandler faces , ? la the fly . the negative surprise is that , with raunchy humor like a cross between austin powers and the nutty professor , little nicky is a pg-13 comedy that would have been more appropriately rated r -- more on some of the reasons why later . rodney dangerfield , in one of many hilarious cameos , plays lucifer , dad's dad . ( quentin tarantino , in another of the film's wild and wacky cameos , plays a blind preacher . ) sandler plays his usual stupid character , only stupider this time . with lovable crudeness , the spike-collared dog tells it like it is . although a cogent case could be made for beefy's being the best part of the movie , my vote would go to reese witherspoon ( election and pleasantville ) , who plays an angel named holly . after setting most of the film in either hell or new york city -- yes , you can tell the difference -- the story switches briefly to visit a heaven that looks like a parody of the robin williams film , what dreams may come . she plays wonderfully against type , and her every word and gesture had me in stitches . the level of sexual humor and language should have gotten the film an r rating . >from the angels we get the inside scoop on god's brain power . " god is so smart ! " " like jeopardy smart ! " adds another . and little nicky , for all of its coarseness , is a surprisingly smart comedy . it's the first adam sandler film that i've ever recommended . ( i could almost recommend the wedding singer . ) but , as i said , it is the ensemble cast , not sandler himself , that makes little nicky sizzle . it is officially rated pg-13 for crude sexual humor , some drug content , language and thematic material , but , as i said , i think an r would have been more appropriate . depending on the kid , the movie would be acceptable for kids around 12 or 13 , and up but take in account my previously mentioned examples . my son jeffrey , age 11 , thought the movie was pretty good and gave it * * 1/2 . john's twin , steven , thought it was really funny and gave it * * * . all of the boys commented that the film should have been rated r . 
how could you go wrong with a recipe like that ? well , in the 6th day , director roger spottiswoode ( tomorrow never dies ) doesn't , coming up with an intelligent and high energy science fiction tale that is a lot of good old fashioned fun . set in a time -- " in the near future . sooner than you think . " -- in which cloning has become possible , the cautionary movie opens with an xfl football game . ( just think of the product placement fees that the xfl had to come up with for that plug . a man who has been known for some robotic acting at times , arnold is remarkably human this time , even when he is a clone . the gadgetry becomes an engrossing and hilarious subplot in its own right . carefully mixing the future with the present , all of the technological toys seem quite realistic . kid's dolls become a creepy cross between a real girl and something from the bride of chucky . the latter is one of many reasons why the film's pg-13 rating is a bit questionable . you back up your data regularly , or you should , but do you back up your brain ? drucker does . memory dumping becomes part of this intriguing and complex story , whose twists come quickly and often . even if part of it is familiar ground for an arnold actioner , it is none the less entertaining . it may not be the sort of movie that you'll be discussing a week later , but while you're there , you'll have a high old time . it is rated pg-13 for strong action violence , brief strong language and some sensuality and would be acceptable for teenagers . 
in the most anticipated movie of the holiday season , jim carrey recreates boris karloff's famous grinch role in how the grinch stole christmas . the 1966 television original , an annual christmas tradition in the rhodes household , is an animated film . even if the remake pales in comparison to the original , it is a cute and funny movie in its own right . as you probably know , the grinch is a " bah humbug " kind of guy who tries to keep christmas from coming to the sweet whos by stealing all of their presents and decorations . in a tribute to the original show and book , the remake keeps most of the lines but adds in more story in order to triple the length of the original half-hour show . anthony hopkins , as the narrator , is the perfect choice to replace boris karloff , whose voice was the best part of the original production . with the exception of his speeding up and slurring a few lines , hopkins provides a wonderful rendition of the seuss rhyme . the inventive result is a snow-covered cross between willy wonka & the chocolate factory and the wizard of oz . only carrey's expressive mouth is recognizable . the story's laughs come from both the gadgets and the dialog . one of the funniest scenes occurs when the toddler grinch is offered christmas cookies on a plate made in the image of santa claus . biting off santa's head rather than eating a cookie , the little grinch announces , " santa , bye-bye . " sometimes , it's the small things that make a difference . the sweet little dog , max , in this version is a wonderful dog who acts and even looks kind of like the original . i like that . it is rated pg for crude humor and would be acceptable for all ages . my son jeffrey , age 11 , thought this version was funnier than the original , but not better . he gave it * * * , mentioning how much he liked the gadgets . 
the rugrats are back in a movie , rugrats in paris : the movie , that is sweeter and funnier than their first . offering as much for the adults as the kids , the film opens with the classic wedding scene from the godfather , complete with nino rota's music . in a darkened room , one of the rugrats , asking a favor of the " bobfather , " starts off with " i believe in the playground . . . " the surprise is that this scene plays as smartly funny for the kids in the audience as the adults . my son mentioned it as one of his favorite parts . don't worry , the movie is correctly rated g . the head came off of a rocking horse . this scene , however , is one that undoubtedly will appeal mainly to the adults . the rugrats , as always , get much of their humor from their rampant malapropisms . the paris setting gives the animators a chance to show off their colorful talents to maximum effect . the result is a bright and cheerful movie that is a delight to watch . the foreign locale also provides many opportunities for humor . as the kids play with the first bidet that they have ever seen , one ecstatically proclaims , " wow , a potty that squirts you back ! " my favorite line comes when the adults are in church . " wake me if you see a hunchback . " why a gigantic , bright blue snail , of course . the really gutsy move is that by nickelodeon . and they'll need lots of garlic . it is rated g and would be fine for all ages . my son jeffrey , age 11 , loves rugrats and their latest movie , giving it * * * * . he also mentioned the music among several other parts that he really liked . his friend maxim , age 12 , gave it * * * , saying it was a good movie but had only an okay plot . 
unbreakable is the highly anticipated film that again unites the sixth sense writer/director m . night shyamalan and actor bruce willis . superbly crafted and strongly acted , the movie feels much like its predecessor . while it's well worth seeing , it has to be labeled as a disappointment . whereas the sixth sense was a great film without the ending twist , unbreakable relies on its " surprise " ending to close the deal with its audience . the ending is interesting but feels too much like a cheap plot trick . it's also a lot easier to guess than the sixth sense's shocking conclusion . the director's control is amazing . taking significant risk , he sets a pace so slow and methodical that he banks on the audience's good graces to stay with him . he never loses you , but , in less capable hands , the movie could have turned into a major seat fidgeter . still , as you sit there in suspense , you're likely to find that the movie is drawing to an end before it ever seems to have properly achieved lift off . it's a great ride in a sleek jet that spends all the time taxiing around the runway . it's a strange way to get started , but it lays the groundwork for the rest of the plot . willis's emotive performance lets us share in david's pain before we have even a hint as to what it could be . this leaves him even more dazed and confused than normal . filmed by eduardo serra in extremely dark , morose shades of gray and scored by james newton howard with ominous , foreboding music , the intense picture projects a strong impression on the viewers . long sections of the movie are so silent that i was embarrassed just quietly turning the pages in my notebook . unbreakable takes you on a mesmerizing journey that you don't want to miss . but don't be surprised if it leaves you less than satisfied . i will not say anything more about it lest i accidentally give something away . this is important since , absent the anticipation of the story's resolution , the movie loses most of its punch . unbreakable runs 1 : 47 . it is rated pg-13 for mature themes , some disturbing violent content and a sexual reference and would be acceptable for teenagers . 
solas , by writer/director benito zambrano , would have been more appropriately released in the united states under its translated title , alone , which perfectly captures the message and the mood of this slender but touching tale that feels like a short story brought to the screen . this only serves to further infuriate mar ? a . as unlikable as mar ? a tries to be , she wins our hearts since you can tell that she is a sad product of her environment . nevertheless , they do share a few precious , if brief , times together . if there is a quibble to be made about such a heart-warming tale , it is that mar ? a dresses and acts a bit too middle-class for all of her professed poverty . but there are no complaints possible about the performances , which are all heart-felt and moving . mar ? a's arc in the story , while predictable , is nonetheless poignant and honest . correctly guessing her transformation does not diminish its impact . " god's given us one more day . " and you'll be thankful if you are fortunate enough to catch this lovely little story . the film is in spanish with english subtitles . it is not rated but would be an r for mature themes and brief sexuality . 
you say . let me say upfront that for whatever reason , probably thanks to director kevin lima ( tarzan ) , 102 dalmatians is much better than it's immediate predecessor , 101 dalmatians . ( neither , however , is better than the animated original . ) glenn close , having a ball chewing up the scenery , is terrific , but it's the dogs that make the show . the best dog of the bunch has to be the eminently lovable oddball . this lack of dots gives oddball lots of opportunities to get into trouble trying to acquire them . the spilled ink from a photocopier's toner cartridge is just one such source of black splotches . oddball is mr . mischief and the dog most likely to appear in the dog endangerment scenes that make the film's g rating a bit questionable . ( there were several blood curdling screams from little tykes in our audience when it looked like oddball was going to be a goner . ) an unusual dog , he has colorful feathers and a beak , although he doesn't think he can fly . giving a single animal the ability of speech makes the story funny without being too silly . sometimes the simplest scenes of the dogs wagging their tails are so cute that you can't help but break into a big smile . and the sets and the costumes alone can provoke quite a few laughs . depardieu doesn't have much of a part , but he makes the most of it . always pronouncing puppies as " poopies , " he sounds like he just walked off the rugrats set . 102 dalmatians is first and foremost a movie ripe with physical comedy . the dialog is treated as almost an afterthought . so what video would a bunch of dogs want to watch when their master is on a date ? in one of the story's best sequences , the movie cuts between the video and kevin and chloe enjoying spaghetti just like lady and the tramp . on the whole , however , 102 dalmatians is a good spirited movie that rarely disappoints . it is rated g , but the " poopie " endangerment scenes may scare some kids under 5 . my son jeffrey , age 11 , gave the film * * * . he really liked oddball and waddlesworth , but complained that he missed the dogs from the first movie . maxim , age 12 , went wild over the picture and gave it * * * * . nickolas , age 11 , gave it * * * 1/2 , having similar comments to jeffrey's . eliot , age 11 , on the other hand , hated the movie , giving it just * 1/2 . he complained that it wasn't original and that it didn't link properly to the first film . the votes from the rest of jeffrey's 6th grade class were quite positive although there were a few who didn't like it . 
david diamond and david weissman's imaginative script is equal parts sliding doors , a christmas carol and it's a wonderful life . director brett ratner , known for his broad comedy rush hour , shows that he is capable of surprising subtlety and grace . the family man is touching and poignant without ever getting anywhere near schmaltz . even if it's more effective as a romantic drama than a comedy , it does have many wonderfully funny moments . currently with model-quality girlfriends , jack doesn't seem the least bit interested in ever dialing kate's number . cage's frozen , wide-eyed expression tells it all about his absolute panic . in a film about cage's character , leoni does a terrific job of not being upstaged by cage . she takes what could just be a one-dimensional character and gives it depth , tenderness and a playful joy . the big question about the narrative is how the story will circle back once the glimpse is over . with a completely satisfying resolution , the movie leaves you with a warm spot in your heart . a perfect film for the christmas season , its messages about the meaning of success and the importance of family is presented with straightforward and genuine warmth . an honest picture and a cute one , although not worthy of christmas classic status , it is rewarding and enjoyable . it is rated pg-13 for sensuality and some language and would be acceptable for kids around 11 and up . my son jeffrey , age 11 , thought the film was " okay " and gave it * * . in the silicon valley it will be showing at the amc and the century theaters . 
" it's an encyclopedia of perversion ! " at the price of one kiss per page , she gets to read the words , which are so hot that they almost burn the page . ( actually , yesterday's perversions are likely to seem silly , tame and obtuse today , as it relies on cute euphemisms like " venus mound . " ) in the movie , people profess shock but read his works as fast as they can . " that's terrible , too , too terrible , " madeleine's blind mother claims as she is read the bawdy text . or at least that's the theory . the subject of the story , which takes many unexpected approaches , is about obsessions . more surprising is that what truly turns on the marquis isn't so much sex or violence , but the act of writing . " how can we know who is truly good , and who is evil ? " quills illustrates this vividly . no matter how much the marquis repulses us , we find ourselves drawn to him when those more wicked than he abuse him . rush makes him such an eminently likeable rogue that we can't help but find ourselves secretly rooting for him no matter how despicable he becomes . quills is a fascinating and sometimes bizarre motion picture . perhaps its biggest surprise , however , is how relatively tame it is . think of it as a ribald one flew over the cuckoo's nest with a script that it is correctly rated r and not nc-17 . an intriguing movie , it leaves you with a lot to ponder . quills runs 2 : 03 . it is rated r for strong sexual content including dialogue , violence and language and would be acceptable for older teenagers . 
( for the record , i found the movie similar in tone and quality to the miniseries , even if the two tell different stories . ) unlike traditional warfare , the drug war has no real beginning or ending and few publicized heroes . if there is an analogy to be made , the drug war is like the endless trench battles in world war i . robert is bored . " i'm angry about a lot of stuff . i'm just not sure what . " helena's all too rapid arc from good to bad is one of the story's few disappointments . the film's large cast , which also includes albert finney , salma hayek , dennis quaid and peter riegert , are well utilized . one almost feels sorry for those actors whom soderbergh didn't invite to be in his film . the movie is surprisingly slow paced for its subject matter and in need of another editing pass to trim off some of the fat . the story itself is fascinating with the notable exception of the unconvincing action of one character towards the end , which plays like a cheap bit of moralizing by the screenwriter . all of the above notwithstanding , what the viewers are most likely to remember a year later is the film's imaginative cinematography . a cool blue , like blue suits reflected off of marble columns , is used for the seats of power in government . even before the characters speak , soderbergh's color scheme alone has already told us much about them . it is rated r for pervasive drug content , strong language , violence and some sexuality and would be acceptable for older teenagers . 
the single biggest disappointment of the film is that we never learn exactly what comprises deaf culture , but we do discover that large numbers of deaf people are extremely protective of it . this zealous cultural protection is fascinating . the film uses the controversial cochlear implant as the focal point of tension between the deaf world and the hearing world . a cochlear implant in the ear , if done when a child is young , is quite effective , allowing the child to develop hearing and speech . but like bilingual education , it is controversial . it is most effective when all of the subsequent education in done without the " crutch " of signing , just as total language immersion is more effective in teaching than a hybrid language approach . the word " abuse " is tossed around a lot . the film takes an evenhanded approach to material that would be easy to slant . of course , understanding some of their motivations doesn't mean that we can agree with them . sympathy is possible , but it is hard to condone peter and nita's actions . would they not want their children to see if what they shared with them was blindness rather than deafness ? your reaction to the film may depend on your ability to hear . members of my audience who signed frequently during the movie got agitated and laughed at different times than i did . the intriguing film should provoke strong emotions and raise excellent question regardless of the viewer's auditory ability . sound and fury runs a fast 1 : 20 . the film has english subtitles and most of the characters sign . it is not rated but would be a g . any child old enough to be interested could see it . 
disney's the emperor's new groove , directed by mark dindal ( cat's don't dance ) , is a throwback to those old cartoon movies with silly , paper thin plots and wisecracking characters . without any pretensions and without wasting much time trying to entertain the adults in the audience , the movie is as carefully targeted to its intended demographics as a saturday morning cartoon series . any kid younger than 13 will undoubtedly love it . older viewers may be less impressed , but it's a hard film to dislike . even if there may be few outright laughs , the story keeps a smile on your face . it is a part that manages to take advantage of david spade's limited talents . kuzco wants to wipe out pacha's village so that he can build kuzcotopia , a summer home that looks like a water-based amusement park . in one of the story's funniest scenes , kuzco stops the action so that he can remind us that the story is about him . following the standard buddy movie formula , kuzco and pacha are a pair of squabbling characters who eventually come to respect and help each other . kronk , who speaks fluent squirrel , is low on iq and common sense . feeling in tone much like dreamworks' the road to el dorado , the emperor's new groove doesn't break any new ground , but it is diverting for the adults and fun for the kids . it is a plot device that we don't see much any more . like most of the rest of the picture , it brought a smile to my face even if it didn't generate any outright laughs . it is rated g and is fine for all ages . my son jeffrey , age 11 , saw the film with most of his sixth grade class , who liked the picture . i interviewed 4 of them afterwards . jeffrey and rajiv gave it * * * 1/2 , and john and maxim gave it * * * * . they thought the film was funny and had a cute plot . 
thirteen days , starring and produced by kevin costner , depicts this famous period . as a history lesson , it is absolutely engrossing , but , as a movie , it falls short of what it should have been able to achieve . although the film is well worth seeing and clearly gets a hit , with this material it should have gotten a home run . directed by roger donaldson , whose dubious credentials include his most recent films , dante's peak and species , and scripted by david self , whose only credit is the laughably bad the haunting , thirteen days is perhaps as good as could be expected . greenwood's bland performance is emblematic of what is wrong with the movie , namely that it gets itself bogged down in long , slowly paced interior scenes in which the strategy is planned . but when the movie cuts back and forth between the politics on the ground and the excitement of the ships at sea and the planes in the air , the film really comes alive . pointed at the united states , these missiles could reach almost as far as seattle and could kill most american citizens within minutes . it is only partially successful . trevor jones's music for the picture is the old-fashioned melodramatic type . but the acting is generally too reserved . when the director allows emotions to come to the surface , the movie has the impact that it should . thirteen days is definitely a movie with an explicit message . besides the fantastic history lesson , the movie leaves us to ponder the veracity of its anti-military message and to wonder how much revisionist history is taking place . it is rated pg-13 for brief strong language and would be acceptable for any kid old enough to be interested in this period in history . 
even if the formulaic plot suffers from a certain amount of predictability , the movie has a superb cast who keep the tension up throughout . into this soap opera of a story come a murder and a mystery . the script carefully gives annie less than laser sharp powers . as she trembles with palpable fear , she witnesses frightening events but frequently sees only small parts of a much larger episode . collecting the entire picture , however , is frequently difficult or impossible for her . blanchett's acting alone is enough to recommend the movie . her power itself appears to be more burden than blessing . bringing up the natural background sounds sometimes and using melancholic instrumental country music at others , raimi gives his movie a realism that transcends the story's more sensational elements . i find that any movie , as this one does , that features a trial is usually a cinematic gift . i'd trade a dozen teen comedies for one exceptional trial . i rate the trial in the gift worth only two or three teen comedies . still , a trial is a trial , and i'm happy to be able to enjoy it . it is rated r for violence , language , sexuality and nudity and would be acceptable for older teenagers . 
panic , by writer/director henry bromell , is a crisp tale rather like a short story . the black comedy has a smart , subtle wit and is filmed in melancholic shades of blues and greens . a character study of middle-aged angst , the movie could not have had a better lead than by macy . with his troubled brow and his handsome , big , soulful eyes , he speaks volumes without even opening his mouth . giving another of his empathetic performances , he makes his character's pain visceral . whether it will ever even evolve past awkward , polite conversation isn't at all certain . like the rest of the story , their chemistry is sad , sweet and poignant . as in many short stories , most of her character stays an enigma . touching , sad and sometimes funny , panic is the story of alex's rebellion at what has become his destiny . the movie's biggest surprise is that with an excellent cast , superb acting and an intriguing story , almost no one has seen it , since it is getting an absolutely minimal theatrical release . with all of the insipid films that get released every week , it is a shame that one with this much merit is being ignored . it is rated r for language and elements of violence and would be acceptable for most teenagers . 
pollock , about the renowned and controversial modern artist jackson pollock , is at once intriguing and insightful as well as boring and baffling . ed harris , who stars as pollock , makes his directorial debut with the film . although clearly a labor of love on harris's part , the film amply demonstrates why most actors need someone other than themselves giving them guidance . harris delivers one of his best performances , indeed , another oscar worthy one , but his director spoils what could have been a masterpiece by letting scenes drag on and on . still , for anyone interested in the creative process , the movie can be quite rewarding . it is difficult to show exactly how an artist goes from a blank canvas to a fully realized vision . pollock tries by simply letting us observe pollock at work . with the intense performance by harris as a troubled artist , the creative tension is almost palpable . acting like a manic-depressive , harris portrays pollock as a troubled soul . that he was able to create anything memorable through that alcoholic haze is quite surprising . one well-staged drinking-and-driving episode best illustrates the depth of pollock's troubles . although his work was frequently criticized as consisting of little more than random splashes , pollock defends his technique . basically a one-man show , it does have many other characters in complementary roles . towards the end of the picture , jennifer connelly , who was so spectacular recently in requiem for a dream , plays another of her more typical throwaway roles as the beautiful but vapid ruth klingman , the last of pollock's mistresses . is pollock a beautiful failure or a flawed success ? like his paintings , it is in the eye of the beholder . for me , it was better than a documentary on the history channel and well worth seeing . in an unsympathetic and enigmatic performance , harris creates a fascinating , flawed man of flesh and blood , who throws temper tantrums like a toddler one minute and acts like a recluse the next . if you can stay awake through the long dull periods , you will learn a lot and get to witness one of the best performances of the year in the process . it is rated r for language and brief sexuality and would be acceptable for teenagers . 
director sean penn and actor jack nicholson , who last collaborated in the over-the-top the crossing guard , surprise us this time with the pledge , a picture of remarkable grace and subtlety . the pledge focuses almost exclusively on jack nicholson as detective jerry black , although many fine actors show up to turn in nice cameos and supporting parts . or is he just lying in wait ? or is it both ? what is most unusual about the second half is that the script by jerzy kromolowski and mary olson-kromolowski , based on friedrich d ? rrenmatt's book , telegraphs where it is going yet maintains the tension . and , when the story finally gets to the easily guessed destination , the film avoids the most committed sin by screenwriters everywhere -- the obsession with tying up all the loose ends . this , of course , may drive anal-retentive viewers nuts , but it does provide for great post-theater car conversations . still , what you will remember a week later isn't the ending . it will be nicholson's exceptional and atypically reserved performance . his detective doesn't come from some overwrought method acting . his worries are made palpable through an intense but delicately nuanced performance by nicholson . it may not be his very best performance , but it sure is a treat to observe . it is rated r for strong violence and language and would be acceptable for older teenagers . in the silicon valley it will be showing at the amc and the century theaters . 
when casting a light comedy , jennifer lopez and matthew mcconaughey would probably be two of the last names that would come to mind . but in adam shankman's the wedding planner these choices prove superb . a good-spirited , romantic comedy with an almost child-like innocence , the movie sweeps you off your feet and puts you in the mood for laughter and love . the wedding planner is a film that's easy to fall in love with , but , like the writers' romance , the relationship gets rocky . it turns out , however , that the film is at its most romantic precisely when it's the funniest . " cover me . the chemistry between the control-freak wedding planner and the more laid back pediatrician is delightful . they create sparks on the screen even though their relationship is confined to a single kiss . the movie is easily one of the mildest pg-13 films in recent memory . save a reference to a female organ and an innocent and sweetly funny scene involving a male nude statue , the movie would have been at most pg . the wedding planner is a comedy that warms your heart instead of grossing out your stomach . imagine that . it's no coincidence that some of the key scenes happen while an old film is playing in the background . in many ways , the wedding planner is a charming throwback to a simpler time at the cinema . but the film never feels dated . it's a dynamite date movie and a good family film as well . it is rated pg-13 for language and some sexual humor and would be acceptable for all ages . 
like the girl on the bridge , the script is again a bit thin , but the acting is quite good , and eduardo serra's cinematography is chillingly evocative . you've seen serra's stunning work most recently in unbreakable and most spectacularly in what dreams may come . i'm sure of that , " she says . known as madame la , a shortened version of madame la capitaine , she is played warmly by juliette binoche , the recent oscar nominee for chocolat , an honor that she didn't really deserve . she is good here as she is in chocolat , but neither performance is worthy of an academy award . there is an important difference between good and great . a sweet and gentle man who made one hideous mistake in his life , neel would no sooner bolt for his freedom than your kids would leave forever if you didn't lock the door . when it begins to look like neel's execution may be carried out , the working class members of the island start to revolt . a never satisfactorily explored subtheme involves the political undercurrents of that period of french history . it is a cocky attitude , but that was a time when the ruling class had a much better chance of keeping their heads than did those of lesser means . the widow of saint-pierre makes you want to crack open your history books and learn more . it's an intriguing tale . the film is in french with english subtitles . it is rated r for a scene of sexuality and brief violence and would be acceptable for teenagers . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
like a figure in a fairy tale , malena , who rarely speaks , is more a statue or a playboy centerfold than a flesh-and-blood person . sometimes they are actors in movies from westerns to gladiator epics . shown in sepia tone , some of these are so funny it's hard to stop laughing . but , don't worry , this isn't some cheesy american pie version of sex . instead , the movie is filmed with an honest sensuality , and it never overplays its hand when it comes to the erotic parts . the movie dazzles the senses . lajos koltai's cinematography accentuates the warm peaches-and-cream color of the stone houses , and ennio morricone's music is a delightful blend of the sweetly whimsical and the dreamily romantic . if you ever desired an older woman ( or man ) when you were young -- or wish that you had -- malena will undoubtedly work its spell on you . it's a charmer . the film is in italian with english subtitles . it is rated r for sexuality , nudity , language and some violence and would be acceptable for older teenagers . 
" i think about them first . " in the comedy lansdown , a very promising first effort by writer/director tom zuber and his first-time cast and crew , hector doesn't think long enough . it turns out that not just any roofer will do . the script , which has shades of tarantino , is quite funny . there is an undertone of seriousness as well , and the story would have been improved if they have developed that more . the sharply written scene speaks volumes about the inability of men and women to communicate . it is not rated but would be an r for violence and language . the film would be acceptable for older teenagers . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
not surprisingly , leroy turns out to have a sensitive side , which sam loves nurturing . you name it . perhaps the best part of this quirky tale is the old , sepia-tone , speeded-up footage showing us the history behind the gun . the elaborately crafted gun was made long ago for the hand of a nobleman . we learn not one version of his legendary story but many . jerry , however , doesn't have time to appreciate the weapon's background . the actors , on the other hand , all appear to be having a great time . and if you were worried , as i was , that the director wouldn't be able to make the transition from his first film , mouse hunt , a dark kids' comedy , to a second one aimed squarely at a more adult audience , don't . this film is much better than mouse hunt . and , let's face it , the mexican is an explosive movie -- exploding with star power . pitt , roberts and gandolfini prove to be a thoroughly enjoyable , crowd pleasing combination . it is rated r for violence and language and would be acceptable for most teenagers . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
iris is quite a simple story but a heart-warming one . the film is in italian with english subtitles . it is not rated but would probably be stuck with an r because of the topless swimmer scene , something common in europe but not the u . s . the film would be acceptable for kids around 11 and up . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
and i do mean " breed . " she is carefully chosen for having an impressive x-ray , good lineage and just the right head shape . just being in it instantly affords gretchen special treatment at work and seating accommodations on trains . the women learn how to shoot and fence at something approximating a fancy summer camp except that the conditioning is done during the dead of a gorgeous winter . they are given survival-of-the-fittest lectures , but most of them treat it like a long sorority sleepover with giggling being their chief pastime . the beauty of the setting and the gaiety of the participants appear in increasing contrast to gretchen's emotions of disgust and withdrawal . the story was powerful enough without writing in a highly improbable love affair between gretchen and leo . it is a distraction and the story never convinces us that it is anything other than a plot device to show us that gretchen really isn't like the other lebensborn breeders . heavy wagnerian music from lohengrin and tannhauser , along with talk of the holy grail , reinforce the gravity of the situation . this is a stunningly beautiful picture , which is both its strength and its weakness . everything is so picture postcard perfect that you start to wonder what the lebensborn program was really like . still , as a movie , it does a terrific job of dramatizing its points with poetic images that will be indelibly marked in your memory . the film is in czech with english subtitles . it is not rated but would be r for nudity and violence and would be acceptable for most teenagers . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
with an epic look and feel , the picture is reminiscent of the godfather , although there are john woo ( mission : impossible ii ) style action touches as well . with strong , melancholic music , lush cinematography , beautiful costumes , handsome period sets and good acting all around , the movie is stunning as well as touching . only the script , which meanders when it should stay focused , is a significant downfall . the movie would be substantially helped if it were to begin with a brief history lesson . after our screening , the director and the host filled in some of the complicated politics of that era , which helped provide some context for what we had seen . without such explanations , western audiences are likely to leave the theater quite impressed but a bit confused . the film is in korean with english subtitles . it is not rated but would be an r for violence and brief nudity . it would be acceptable for older teenagers . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
the brightly written script got lots of laughs from our audience . i believe him . dinner and a movie runs a fast and funny 1 : 25 . it is not rated but would probably be pg . it has nothing to offend anyone of any age although one would probably have to be at least 9 to be interested in the material . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
psst . if you can keep it a secret , i can now reveal some of what really happened just before the infamous bay of pigs . i found out the inside story at company man , an over-the-top comedy that is so intentionally " bad , " it's hilarious . think of it as the movie that battlefield earth should have been . or , perhaps more aptly , think of it as a history lesson in the deliciously wacky airplane ! style . whatever it is , the movie , jointly written and directed by douglas mcgrath ( emma ) and peter askin , will have you laughing loudly and often . more sophisticated viewers will undoubtedly engage in a bit of revisionist history afterwards as some critics did at our screening , claiming that it was actually a terrible movie and that their laughs were merely those of derision . if a comedy rates high on my laugh-o-meter , that's enough for me . i don't care what devious means it employees to produce the guffaws . ( remember , you're sworn to secrecy . ) the russian turns out to be none other than world-renowned russian ballerina rudolph petrov ( ryan phillippe ) , who tells allen , " i wish to defecate -- i mean defect . " about to go stark raving mad , fry tells him , " i've only said one sentence since you arrived , and you've been correcting it ever since . " indicative of the wild level of the comedy is the casting of woody allen as the cia station chief . the producers managed to find a cryogenically frozen woody from his wonderfully crazy , early comedies like bananas and defrost him . i half expected tom cruise to pop by the set for a cameo . the writers use variations on them in the script . it is rated pg-13 for brief sexual humor and drug content , but it is so mild that it's basically pg . with the exception of one ribald scene during the ending credits , the film would be acceptable for almost all kids , but kids probably need to be 11 or 12 to be able to appreciate the film's humor . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
written and directed by john herzfeld ( 2 days in the valley ) , the uneven movie has trouble deciding what kind of picture it wants to be . at first , it goes for light comedic drama , and the parts of the bad guys could easily have been played by robin williams in his full comedic schtick mode . this light heartedness gives way to an intense and sometimes quite violent crime drama . the intriguing movie works in fits and spurts but keeps you with it even with some troubling logical problems . still , de niro and burns are both terrific , so it is a movie whose flaws can be easily overlooked . 15 minutes runs two hours . it is rated r for strong violence , language and some sexuality and would be acceptable for older teenagers . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
the yellow-colored y rays are tolerable , but the new green-colored z rays are pretty sinister . so what is the story about ? it's a murder mystery with romulus as a blend of the lead characters of shine , " columbo , " and the fisher king . jackson avoids all of the pitfalls of such a role , delivering a performance that makes romulus a complex character who deserves our sympathy and our understanding . director kasi lemmons , whose only other film was the acclaimed eve's bayou , has an acute sense of the visual . romulus's many surrealist dream sequences are particularly compelling , giving us an enhanced awareness of his pain . the caveman's valentine doesn't quite fit into any category . it's a fairly thin mystery but a heck of a character study . whatever it is , it keeps your eyes glued to the screen from beginning to end . without jackson to play the central role , the production would have been hopeless . it is rated r for language , some violence and sexuality and would be acceptable for older teenagers . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
in a time of rifle shortages , the russian officers have a perfect solution -- skip giving a rifle to every other man . i do not move . " his actions become the turning point for the entire world war , or so the movie would have us believe . like the famous flying aces of world war i , vassily is challenged by germany's best marksman , an aristocrat named major koenig , played by ed harris in a pensive , reserved performance . an almost salivating danilov sees it " as the essence of class struggle . " what's the missing ingredient in most war movies ? will they or won't they ? what do you think ? the actor having the most fun is pudgy-faced bob hoskins , who gets to chew up the scenery as khrushchev . in contrast to the battle sequences , which approach the intensity of saving private ryan , the action behind the lines is a mixture of realism and hokum . after a brilliant beginning , the movie begins to bog down like the battle itself . the director falls too much in love with his picture and includes many superfluous scenes that would have better been left on the cutting room floor . a trimmed up script would start with the entire elimination of tania , an unneeded diversion . but , regardless of the film's flaws , it's still a fascinating piece of history and an intriguing picture . enemy at the gates runs too long at 2 : 08 . it is rated r for strong graphic war violence and some sexuality and would be acceptable for older teenagers . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
can one have too good of a friend ? and what does it take to remove a 20-year writer's block , especially if the writer isn't aware that he has it in the first place ? it's a frustratingly familiar scene to which most parents can easily relate . michel has no idea who this man with the frozen , silly grin on his face is . harry is such an enormous admirer of michel's work that he can recite michel's poem by heart , which surprises claire who didn't know that michel ever wrote anything . the ever-perturbed but resilient michel has more problems than growing girls . always butting in where they're not wanted , their most recent and unappreciated gift is a new , bright pink -- they insist it's fuchsia -- bathroom in the country farmhouse that michel has been working on restoring every summer . the story's dark second half , full of morbid humor , concerns harry's unsolicited help with every aspect of michel's life . only the story's predictability and the plot's long setup detract from its enjoyment . the wickedly funny film leaves you with lots to talk about when you leave . the film is in french with english subtitles . it is rated r for language , some violence and a scene of nudity and would be acceptable for most teenagers . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
in david mirkin's heartbreakers , a sweet comedy which plays like a lighthearted version of the grifters , sigourney weaver and jennifer love hewitt are a mother/daughter pair of con artists . although they look like mutt and jeff with their dramatic height difference , weaver and hewitt are a convincing and funny choice as relatives and rivals . their confidence games are quite believable . and page , with her lovely legs , micro skirts and erin brockovich-type bras that push her generous breasts skyward , looks like someone who might tempt even the most married of married men . in short , the deliciously caustic chemistry between weaver and hewitt is the best part of the movie . the weakest link , other than the excessive running time , is the supporting cast . although liotta is impressive , most of the others are either underutilized or miscast . but page hates the whole idea . the image almost makes the unflappable , non-smoking max gag . gag isn't something you will do while watching this brightly written comedy . heartbreakers isn't any laugh riot , but it is entertaining fun . it's the sort of picture that will leave you with a smile on your face and a feeling that you got your money's worth . heartbreakers runs needlessly long at 2 : 03 . it is officially rated pg-13 for sex-related content including dialogue , and with scenes of oral sex and bondage , this is certainly a film unsuitable for those under 13 . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
bulls , it turns out , can't be tricked . the sweet and cute someone like you is a whimsical romantic comedy which is compartmentalized into nifty sounding little chapters , including " establishment of intimacy , " " the vocalization of emotions , " and " a call to arms . " you may not laugh a lot , but you won't mind since you'll be too busy being charmed . in one of her typical supporting character parts , marisa tomei plays liz , jane's buddy and counselor in the ways of love . director tony goldwyn ( a walk on the moon ) , normally an actor , is certainly an actor's director . letting his actors establish their own paces and rhythms , he comes up with a natural feeling , relaxed film that's easy to enjoy . of course , having such a likeable star as judd makes his job seem a lot simpler than it probably is . someone like you runs a fast 1 : 33 . it is rated pg-13 for sexual content including dialogue , and for some language and would be acceptable for kids around 12 and up . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
writer and director robert rodriguez , whose unlikely background is in r-rated films such as the faculty and desperato , makes an impressive jump into a barely pg-rated world . an intelligent picture that doesn't talk down to the kids or the adults , spy kids is that rare film that can wear the badge of " family fare " with pride . it's also imaginative , well cast and quite funny . the kids , who bicker like typical siblings , are sure that their parents' lives are dull and boring . " what are you talking about ? " " my parents can't be spies . they're not cool enough . " your parents may be hiding some amazing talents that you know nothing about . ) the fun starts when the movie begins to show off its large array of futuristic gadgets that would make james bond envious . floop , who has a popular kids' tv show featuring humorously grotesque figures called fooglies , is assisted by a sappily subservient tony shalhoub as minion . among the many humorous characters , none are better than the bad guys known as the thumb-thumbs . their torsos have large thumbs where the head , arms and legs should be . these clumsy oafs are , well , all thumbs . it is rated pg for action sequences and would be acceptable for all ages , as our packed multigenerational audience amply demonstrated . my son jeffrey , age 12 , loved the picture , giving it * * * 1/2 . he found it funny , interesting and very creative . he particularly liked the way that whole plot was constructed . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
flannigan is rather well played by monica potter ( patch adams and head over heels ) , an attractive and likable actress with very blonde hair , large eyes and lips , who up until now has delivered one bland performance after another . under tamahori's direction , she shows a more vulnerable and intelligent side that hasn't been seen much up until now . freeman is nothing short of terrific again and is a real treat to watch . unfortunately , many of the supporting cast aren't used as effectively . >from the gripping action sequence that opens the movie until the last twist , director tamahori keeps the audience on the edge of their seats . marc moss's script , based on james patterson's novel , provides some nice surprises but not so many that it gets ridiculous . yes , there are probably plenty of logical problems with the story , but the film , to its credit , never goes into neutral , allowing the audience to begin thinking about any possible holes or implausibilities . the result is an entertaining film that makes you crave for the next time morgan freeman recreates his detective alex cross character . i'm certainly ready . it is rated r for violence and language and would be acceptable for most teenagers . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
potente , who was recently wasted in the bland part she was given in blow , reminds us again of how terrific her acting can be . although tykwer has some of his time travel tricks up his sleeve again , the narrative structure is fairly traditional , and the movie is not so frantically paced as run lola run . suffering only from a somewhat self-indulgent length of over two hours , the movie is nevertheless mesmerizing . although it culminates in the robbery , the film keeps its focus on the human relationships and not the crime . even if it's no run lola run , few films are , it is a captivating piece of work from an excellent team . it is rated r for disturbing images , language and some sexual content and would be acceptable for older teenagers . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
the sweetly silly miracles ( qiji ) , stars jackie chan ( rush hour and shanghai noon ) , who also serves as the film's writer and director . with a handsome new print that shows off the picture's sumptuous and colorful sets and costumes , the movie manages to rise above its slapstick roots . for those who go to chan films only to see his signature brand of comic kung fu -- he prides himself in doing his stunts himself , no matter how painful -- the movie may be disappointing . not until a long ending sequence set in a rope factory does chan really allow himself to cut loose and show off . when he does , it is such a treat that even those who find the body of the story flagging will think it is worth the wait . ( the period isn't specified but appears to be the roaring twenties or perhaps just a bit later . ) the least interesting subplot has kuo's rival , tiger ( chun hiang ko ) , trying to extort half of the nightclub's earnings . " i'm tired of this farce , " kuo's right-hand man says at one point . and to be honest , so was i . a little trimming sometime could be a good thing . still , even if it does drag a bit , chan's charm saves the day . it's a good-spirited production that's certain to leave a smile on your face . the film is in cantonese with english subtitles . it is rated pg-13 for action violence and some language and would be acceptable for kids old enough to read subtitles . my son jeffrey , age 12 , seeing his first subtitled film , gave it * * 1/2 . he said that he liked it and that it was cool and funny . he found the subtitles -- it's a talky film -- a bit hard to keep up with at times . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
first-time writer and director thomas bezucha's big eden is part gay romance and part slice-of-small-town-life story . a good-spirited and closely observed movie , it is filled with honest characters who all possess a genuine chemistry . the would-be lovers and the townsfolk actually care about one another . the cynics , of course , will argue that such rampant humanitarianism makes it all a fairy tale , but i found it touching and believable from beginning to end . dean's a physical kind of guy who likes lots of bear hugs and manly touching , which frustrates henry enormously . both actors turn in nicely nuanced and compelling performances . the story concerns a few , not very well kept secrets . in the story's most engaging and enigmatic performance , eric schweig ( tom & huck ) plays pike dexter , a painfully shy , gentle giant who is uncomfortable speaking to humans , although he opens up easily to his dog . beautifully filmed and warmly scored , the movie is a treat for the eyes and ears . only a needlessly pat ending spoils what is otherwise a realistic and moving story . big eden runs 1 : 57 . it is rated pg-13 for some mature thematic material and would be acceptable for kids around 12 and up . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
cumming and leigh , who jointly wrote and directed the anniversary party , invited their real-life friends to star with them in it , which gives the film a killer ensemble cast . how often do you get to see the likes of cumming , leigh , jane adams , jennifer beals , phoebe cates , kevin kline , gwyneth paltrow , parker posey and john c . reilly in the same movie ? with this impressive talent , they make an indie-budget film that has more edge , skill and pizzazz than you normally find in such productions . to add even more icing to this cinematic cake , respected cinematographer john bailey ( ordinary people and as good as it gets ) demonstrates that digital video can indeed look sharp , sumptuous and generally steady . normally , indie directors are willing to accept dv movies that appear so ugly that they remind you of your neighbor's bad home videos . joe , who is described by one character as a " sexually ambivalent manchild , " clearly has more than a directorial interest in skye , which sally resents . skye , who is a big fan of sally's pictures , tells her , " i've been watching your movies since i was 4 , " which , of course , only reminds sally that she's no longer an ing ? nue . skye goes on to remark that when she was in drug rehab -- the second time -- she wasn't allowed to watch sally's drug movie because the acting was too realistic . always so jittery that she seems in danger of leaping off the screen , clair has a long , revealing nude scene that will make you want to bring her a robe to cover up . the comedy turns more serious as the story advances , and the funniest lines usually have aspects of both humor and drama . it's a bitingly true commentary on parenthood . the script is filled with such little gems of wisdom . it is rated r for language , drug use and nudity and would be acceptable for older teenagers . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
her unexplained theatrical job might well have been at a place called something like the pussy cat lounge , but gina is nonetheless delighted . the hot desert sun quickly fries their brains and nerves , causing them scandalously to say exactly what they are really thinking rather than the polite blather that we usually take for conversation . in the superb cast , bruce davison and janet mcteer play ray and liz , a sad , childless couple . the acerbic script by anders thomas jensen and kristian levring has characters generally going after each other with words rather than showy , emotional outbursts . it is one of the few dogme films that is actually enhanced by the technique . here the harsh lighting and the intimate , handheld camerawork blend in perfectly with the austerity of the setting . the picture , however , does have its logical and technical problems . the characters stay outside and get parched by the glaring sun when it would only make sense to perform the play indoors . and why cinematographer jens schlosser keeps framing scenes so that people's eyes , the most expressive part of one's anatomy , are chopped off remains a mystery . as their strength wanes and it looks like no one will ever come to save them , the story gets more and more intriguing . and , as their minds become focused on survival , the human drama ratchets up in intensity . the ending will not be satisfying to everyone , but this isn't the type of picture that is made to appeal to the masses . suffice it to say that it worked for me . it is rated r for sexuality and language and would be acceptable for older teenagers . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
the road home ( wo de fu qin mu qin ) , by acclaimed director zhang yimou ( to live and shanghai triad ) , is an exceedingly modest love story that is saved by its gorgeous filming , haunting scoring and heartfelt acting . although your mind may wander since so little happens , your eyes may tear up during some of the striking visuals . the result is a disappointing film that's still worth seeing . this part is shot in radiant colors , which perfectly capture the rich yellows and golds of an autumn forest . yusheng's mother , di zhao , a petite young beauty , is played with a bright eyed spark by zhang ziyi . the film's pervasive theme music , which repeats every few minutes , could become a sort of chinese water torture if you didn't like it . personally , i didn't care how many dozen times it played , i couldn't get enough of it . a week from now , i suspect that this tune will be the only part of the production that will prove memorable . the film is in mandarin with english subtitles . it is rated g since there is nothing to offend anyone of any age . kids less than 13 , however , are not likely to find much to hold their interest . in the silicon valley , it will be showing at the camera theaters . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
being married to a musical genius can be a humbling experience , and alma mahler isn't the type who handles humility well . the movie is saved by mahler's sublime and ever-present music and by first-time screenwriter marilyn levy's sporadic flourishes of brilliance . sarah wynter delivers an enigmatic performance as alma , and jonathan pryce ( tomorrow never dies ) gives a convincingly reserved version of gustav . if there were a single thing that i could change about the film , it would be in the music mix . mahler was a powerful symphonic composer , but much of the film's wonderful background music has been mixed so that solo instruments overwhelm the rest of the orchestra . the movie's most impressive moments occur precisely when the full force of mahler's symphonic scoring is heard . an artist friend of hers reassures her that mahler's music is " much better than it sounds , " stealing a mark twain quote about wagner . a movie that is too often in a hurry to cover all of alma's life , it does pause every now and then to offer tidbits of wisdom . it is rated r for some sex and nudity and would be acceptable for older teenagers . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
okay , admit it . sometimes movies are so awful , so over-the-top ridiculous that they're good and a lot of fun to laugh at . swordfish , directed by dominic sena ( gone in 60 seconds ) and starring john travolta , is one such film . and unlike travolta's magnum opus of badness , battlefield earth , swordfish has so few pretensions that it invites you to laugh along with the script rather like the bouncing ball of music sing-alongs . since the film's buzz has stemmed mainly from halle berry's infamous naked breast scene , perhaps i should start with the warning that the scene is about as exciting as a naked bust in an art museum . during his soliloquy the camera goes in and out of focus so many times that your head will feel like it may explode . speaking of explosions , things that go boom in swordfish don't just ignite , they go close to thermonuclear . swordfish is the sort of movie that relishes its glorification of stupidity . the script by skip woods is quite educational . we learn that 128-bit encryption is pretty secure stuff unless someone with stan's skills , who kind of intuits his ways through the decoding , is trying to break it . but , 512-bit is really tough stuff . are you taking notes ? you've probably always wondered exactly how superstar programmers work . well , swordfish shows that to do world-class hacking , you need nine monitors . in a movie this silly , it's hard to pick a favorite moment . for me , it occurs after gabriel stands up in his fast , expensive sports convertible to simultaneously shoot down sleek , black sport-utes on both sides . others , however , may prefer the film's way , way over-the-top finale . actually , the more i think about it , the story's ludicrous big secret may be the biggest hoot of all . it is rated r for violence , language and some sexuality/nudity and would be acceptable for most teenagers . in the silicon valley , it will be showing at the amc and the century theaters . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
evolution , by director ivan reitman ( ghostbusters ) , is a silly sci-fi flick that's a fun blend of your favorites including jurassic park , mars attacks and galaxy quest . although it starts slow , once it gets in gear the laughs start to fly . harry's main concern is about the payout schedule and tax implications of a nobel prize . the science behind the story has equal measure of fascinating imagination and needlessly troublesome logical holes . as the aliens evolve , phil tippett's models are a mixture of the creative and the mundane as if the production were hurried . a typical " monster " is a cute little baby jabba the hutt that turns out to have an alien-like creature in its throat . the film , which is rated pg-13 , will make you jump more than once . don't even think about bringing kids of any age that are easily frightened . the comedy , both physical and verbal , is a real treat , but the actors' ability to pull it off varies widely . jones has great fun chewing up the scenery , and scott never played dumb better . duchovny's performance is uneven , and moore seems miscast . in a picture that pulls no comedic punches , it is one of the few so brazen as to have not only a major product placement but an outright commercial as well . but , never fear , it's all in the service of the comedy and turns out to be quite funny . i'm sure that the placement fees had no influence whatsoever . it is rated pg-13 for crude and sexual humor , and for sci-fi action and would be acceptable for not easily frightened kids 10 and up . my son jeffrey , age 12 , found the film quite funny and gave it * * * 1/2 . his friend sam , also 12 , gave the movie a full * * * * , saying that it was very clever and funny . in the silicon valley , it will be showing at the amc and the century theaters . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
in stark contrast to the hard-hitting traffic , which is constantly on message , ted demme's blow takes an entertaining , soap opera approach to the world of drug trafficking . not until the end when he is buried in prosthetics does depp look anything other than terrific . as always , his acting is dead-on even if he has trouble looking anything other than great . george confesses that " my ambitions far exceeded my talents , " something that clearly doesn't apply to depp . " it doesn't matter . it seems like it does , but it doesn't . " george , on the other hand , gets a completely different message than the one intended and vows never to be poor again , no matter what it takes . prominently and beautifully featured on the film's poster , pen ? lope cruz ( woman on top ) doesn't show up until well into the second half . cruz is just constitutionally incapable of looking bad . although it is an easy movie to enjoy , it isn't especially challenging or insightful . although it receives only a modest amount of screen time , it is their scenes together that most give humanity to depp's characterization of george and to the movie itself . blow runs a little too long at 2 : 02 . it is rated r for pervasive drug content and language , some violence and sexuality and would be acceptable for high school seniors and older . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
chopper , written and directed by andrew dominik , is based on the books written by one of australia's most notorious criminals , mark " chopper " read , but the film is careful to point out that the story is not a biography , per se . what it is is a chilling tale that is made even more intriguing by being based on a real criminal . the compelling reason to see chopper is the tour de force performance by eric bana as chopper . ( a reason not to see it , for some , is that it is intense , realistic and graphically violent . ) bana so inhabits his part as chopper that it becomes hard to belief that he is just acting . bana is probably a sweet guy in real life , but , after seeing this movie , you'd probably run away if you met him in public . chopper , looking like a hell's angel with an almost indecipherable aussie accent , has rolls of fat on his beer belly . his skin is tattooed , not with works of body " art " but rather with something that looks more like doodling , and his mouth is filled with shiny metal teeth . between violent episodes in and out of prison , there are some humorous scenes as well . chopper is the kind of guy to whom there are no right answers . although most viewers are probably uncomfortable with such intense experiences as chopper , for those who can stomach it , this movie is a fascinating portrait of a frightening man . and it contains a great performance by eric bana . it is not rated but would be nc-17 for graphic violence , drug usage and language and would be acceptable for college students and older . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
josie and the pussycats is spiceworld but with -- are you ready for this ? -- an actual plot . it's about nothing less than a " conspiracy to brainwash the kids of america with pop music , " specifically with subliminal messages . the movie , written and directed in a collaborative effort by harry elfont and deborah kaplan , who last gave us the miserable comedy can't hardly wait , is full of fun hi-jinks and lots and lots of high energy music . the funniest parts of the story are the product placement parodies . usually spectacular , posey delivers a chillingly off-kilter performance as the weird , wacky woman ceo of megarecords . thinking thoughts like , " orange is the new pink " and " feathers are the new rhinestones , " the teens have to go out and buy the latest fashion fad to replace perfectly good items that they already have . even if the movie isn't exactly unforgettable , the same can't be said for the main song , " 3 small words , " which sticks in your brain like super glue . you don't think that there really are some hidden messages in it , do you ? personally , i don't . at any rate , i'm too busy right now to think about it . i've got to buy some new nikes so i can walk to mcdonalds and get a coca-cola and a big mac . after that there are 17 items of designer clothing at the mall that i just remembered that i absolutely have to buy before sunset . it is rated pg-13 for language and sensuality and would be acceptable for kids around 7 and up . my son jeffrey , age 12 , gave it * * * . he said that it was funny and that he liked josie and loved the music . he remarked how much the film was like spiceworld . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
what's a spy to do if he can't even land a decent assignment ? not exactly a spy story or a comedy , although it has aspects of both , the movie is basically a character study . rush , who has a tendency to overachieve with his acting , is decidedly reserved this time . although andy , like bond , sleeps with as many women as possible and speaks fluent double entendre , he is as slimy and oily as bond is slick and debonair . it is a wonderful against type performance by brosnan and the best argument for seeing the movie . with a quiet intensity , curtis manages to dominate scenes that others should own . and in an age in which actors have no problem with massive violence but carefully write no-nudity clauses into their contracts , curtis has a good body and is more than happy to flaunt it . she has some simple but erotically charged scenes with brosnan . this incident has more genuine sexuality than a dozen canonical scenes of humping actors on squeaking bed frames . the tailor of panama is a small movie that ages well . the more you think about it ; the more you appreciate its subtle charms . it is rated r for strong sexuality , language and some violence and would be acceptable for older teenagers . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
alexander , played with pensive intensity by john turturro , is a compelling and endearing character who's rather like an idiot savant . we learn , for example , that the king is the center of attention but has limited powers , whereas the queen is more cunning and agile . two-time academy award nominee watson ( breaking the waves and hilary and jackie ) , whose talent is so large and impressive that she quietly dominates most movies she appears in , manages to be no less accomplished this time , but her performance is eclipsed by an even better one by turturro . with his bad suits , unkempt hair and constant need for a shave , alexander sticks out like a sore thumb at the expensive resort . you will be consumed watching the movie . after several twists , only some of which are easy to guess , the story ends quite surprisingly and quite satisfactorily , although not in any conventional sense . one shudders to think how a big studio version of this story would conclude . it is rated pg-13 for some sensuality and thematic elements . although it would be acceptable for most kids , it has little to offer those under 13 . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
" stop it with those stupid pictures of yours ! " a heartfelt , crowd-pleaser of a story , the debut suffers from acting that can be amateurish at times and a plot that could be called clich ? d were the film not so honest in its presentation . but it is a movie that is able to rise above its limitations . it is also one that is careful to show that racist attitudes occur in all cultures . that it is all predictable doesn't negate its impact . i found myself applauding at one point as one guy finally got what was coming to him . filmed handsomely by hisham abed , the debut isn't one of those indie pictures shot on grainy video that attempts to equate gritty ugliness with realism . the movie knows when to back off and include some self-deprecating humor . the best of the film's humor comes from the party's filipino-american militant . it turns out that white folks have invented hot cars as a way to distract filipino-americans from their lack of opportunities . " that's deep ! " one of them remarks quite seriously . the debut runs 1 : 34 . it isn't rated but might be pg-13 for language and one fistfight . the film would be acceptable for kids around 11 or 12 and up . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
cats , on the other hand , represent the dark side in lawrence guterman's live action comedy , cats & dogs , a movie that has enough on its mind to entertain the parents but is clearly aimed at the youngsters in the audience . with it , everyone can adopt a puppy without worries . not surprisingly , lou rises to the challenge . the script by john requa and glenn ficarra has many funny moments . it's a stirringly funny scene . personally , i am waiting for the sequel , dogs & cats , so that the dogs' evil ways can be exposed , and the sweet kitties can conquer . did i mention that -- although i love all animals -- i am definitely a cat person ? no matter . any objective observer will see that the poor cats were railroaded in this comedy and deserve a chance for revenge ! it is rated pg for animal action and humor and would be acceptable for all ages . my son jeffrey , age 12 , loved everything about the film and gave it * * * * . he especially mentioned how much he enjoyed lou , mr . tinkles , the gadgets and the animals' planning . he enjoyed mr . tinkles's dress-up scenes the best . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
ah , it's the good life . with a bald head , big ears and a menacing goatee , ben kingsley , in another of his bravado performances , plays don . sexy beast , directed by jonathan glazer and written by louis mellis and david scinto , has the intensity and the staccato dialog of a david mamet film . although normally possessing a demeanor that's roughly the equivalent to the calm of the eye in the center of a hurricane , don can be riled . the melancholy music suggests that all is not going to go well . although there are a few nice twists along the way , this is a crime drama that uses the force of the characters , not cheap plot tricks , to maintain the tension . only those who require non-stop action will leave disappointed . it is rated r for pervasive language , strong violence and some sexuality and would be acceptable for older teenagers . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
after the wildly popular but cheesy the lost world : jurassic park , moviegoers have been wondering whether jurassic park iii , this time directed by joe johnston ( october sky and jumanji ) , would follow the usual movie rule whereby each sequel is another drop in quality from its predecessor . well , i'm here to report that jurassic park iii is a rule breaker , a smartly written and funny popcorn flick that is a lot of fun . it isn't as needlessly gory as lost world , so it should appeal to younger ages , and the screenwriters , first-timer peter buchman and the citizen ruth and election team of alexander payne and jim taylor , pack plenty of goodies for older viewers as well . and the monsters , i mean dinosaurs , are more realistic than ever , including some new flying dinosaurs . the corollary is guessing who will survive to the end , which is typically easy since you are usually safe figuring out the salary of the stars and then reasoning that the studios will want to get the most bang for their buck . this means that eluding them proves extra tricky . the script lets the humans find just enough tools of various kinds to make it . ingenuity is at a premium and the survivors evidence both courage and brains . the best part of the movie may be the length . just when you are completely satisfied and before you ever have a chance to get tired and start checking your watch , the movie concludes quickly and efficiently . and it ends without any doubt as to whether the studio wants to call an end to the jurassic park franchise . it is rated pg-13 for intense sci-fi terror and violence and would be acceptable for kids around 8 and up , depending on how well they handle monster violence . my son jeffrey , age 12 , gave it * * * * . he said it was much better and not as blood thirsty as lost world . he thought the plot was cool and the graphics were great . he liked the way it related back to the original in story , style and music . in the silicon valley , it will be showing at the amc and the century theaters . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
disney's the princess diaries , directed by garry marshall ( runaway bride and pretty woman ) , is a charming , g-rated throwback to a more innocent time at the cinema , when movies were filled with humor that the whole family could laugh at without a trace of embarrassment . a my fair lady type of story , it stars anne hathaway ( " get real " ) as someone with the girlish awkwardness of a haley mills and the childlike beauty of a sandra dee . with a gift for physical comedy , hathaway manages to make even the most clich ? d pratfalls fresh and delightful . once he finishes his magic , of course , it is a " wow " moment for the queen and the audience . for some reason , cinematographer karl walter lindenlaub chose to light the movie harshly and brightly when a hazier glow would seem to have been a better choice for this royal fairly tale . his choice gives the images more of a matter-of-fact look than a magical one . this sweet confection of a film goes down easily and is filled with many big laughs . it may not be the summer's most memorable movie , but it is a completely entertaining one . most amazingly , it is a comedy for the whole family with a refreshing absence of bathroom humor . you can take your 5-year-old and her great-grandmother , and they'll both enjoy the picture just as much as you do . it is rated g and is fine for all ages . my son jeffrey , age 12 , gave the film * * 1/2 . although he thought it was funny , he said that he didn't like it as much as many other summer movies . his friend maxim , age 12 , gave it * * * 12 , mentioning how funny and imaginative it was . his friend sam , age 12 , gave it * * * * , commenting that it was a very funny movie and a real crowd pleaser . in the silicon valley , it will be showing at the amc and the century theaters . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
although he gets both , neither provides a very satisfying substitute for real flesh-and-blood encounters . the film , set in some indefinite time in the future , manages to find insightful things to say about everything from the importance of relationships to the need for real sex to the scary consequences of a nanny state . it even skewers insurance companies by pointing out that too much care can sometimes be a bad thing . the film is funny , sad and frequently downright weird with the bizarre facial paint that people in the future wear . of course , how would metal spikes through someone's nose , lip or eyebrow have been thought of by someone in the nineteenth century ? tastes change and not always for the better . sometimes he is connected to a real person , and other times he reaches a canned video . the film gives us a glimpse at how the women come to join such a service . much like watching " the dating game , " we keep wondering whether thomas will choose bachelorette number one , the tearful and mysteriously sad eva ( aylin yay ) , or bachelorette number two , the immature but exuberant melodie ( magali pinglaut ) . he might even do something more frightening still . this much is certain , there's incredible profit to be made if some entrepreneur could just come up with the right product tie-in for the movie . the film is in french with english subtitles . it is not rated but would be an r for animated sex , language and mature themes and would be acceptable for older teenagers . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
the first american film by writer , director , editor and star takeshi kitano , an enormously popular japanese version of clint eastwood , brother could be referred to as the loneliness of the long distance gunner . like eastwood's spaghetti westerns , the stylistic violence is the movie , and the plot is close to non-existent . the difference is that brother is more violent , much classier and absolutely fascinating . as a director , kitano has a gift for framing and staying with a scene , and his editing choices are impeccable . with his pensive stare , his slight facial twitch and his droll , macabre humor , yamamoto is a walking time bomb that explodes at random intervals . rather like an opera , the dramatic and melancholy score sweeps us into the frame . kitano loves to have the camera linger over facial close-ups . he does this with his biggest smile of the movie , which is little more than a grin . brother is a breathtakingly beautiful but graphically violent film that isn't for everyone . but , if you're a kitano fan , you'll be very satisfied . the film is in english and in japanese with english subtitles . it is rated r for pervasive strong violence , language and brief nudity and would be acceptable for older teenagers . my son jeffrey , age 12 , gave it just one * , saying that it was a bloodbath without a plot . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
the remarkably thin plot works primarily due to auteuil's disarming charm . what does the company manufacture ? amazingly , the movie uses the company's product for only two big jokes . the film is in french with english subtitles . it is rated r for a scene of sexuality and would be acceptable for teenagers . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
hey , break open a keg . the gang's all here . in order to remind us of the bawdy incidents that we loved from the first movie , writer adam herz begins with a lot of not so subtle references to the original , which the audience laps up . although no pie is harmed in the making of this movie , you can be sure that jim will have another encounter that he won't soon forget or be able to live down . as soon as you see the cause of his troubles this time , you'll guess what will happen , but that will in no way detract from your enjoyment of the results . actually , the two most memorable scenes in american pie 2 are centered on stifler . one is based on champagne , and another involves men's fantasy of homosexuality -- but only among women . the movie itself feels like a compendium of the best episodes from an entire season of a raunchy cable sitcom . this leaves them with one almost successful phone sex scene and not much else to do in the movie . american pie 2 has some large laughs but not many genuine surprises . one surprise , however , is that it can sometimes be as sweet as it is funny . as she put its succinctly , " you've got to preheat the oven before you stick in the turkey . " it's not a blonde bombshell that guys want . it's an understanding female to show them the real ways of romance . michelle provides that charmingly for jim . it is rated r for strong sexual content , crude humor , language and drinking and would be acceptable for older teenagers . in the silicon valley , it will be showing at the amc and the century theaters . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
songcatcher , written and directed by maggie greenwald , is a charming film that could almost be a hallmark hall of fame television movie given its norman rockwell brand of folksy americana . hallmark , however , would probably not be comfortable with the amount of implicit sex going on and would want to cut short the songs which fill almost every scene . the film was a hit at 2000's sundance film festival . it's an unusual picture , essentially a musical of folk ballads . it may not have much a narrative drive , but it sure can carry a tune . yep , you guessed it . the movie is best when it lets the music flow , which is most of the time . the songs , both romantic and tragic , are uniformly lovely , regardless of the singing ability of the person singing them . less effective are the moments when the movie tries to go on message . a movie like this that is built with a collection of little incidents has trouble ending . the dramatic incident that greenwald comes up with is a bit too easy to foretell and is allowed to occur too easily by those involved . but the story has to end somehow , and the way greenwald chooses is reasonable even if not especially inspired . songcatcher leaves you in a state of bliss as the music floats through your mind like a billowy cloud on a lazy summer day . songcatcher runs 1 : 52 . it is rated pg-13 for sexual content and an intense scene of childbirth and would be acceptable for kids around 11 or 12 and up . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
the opening credits for rat race perfectly serve their purpose of putting the audience into a suitably silly mood . each of the movie's long list of stars appears with his or her real head attached to a cartoon figure body that waddles by the titles like a drunk duck . working from a wonderfully wacky script by andy breckman ( sgt . throws in everything but the kitchen sink -- or maybe the sink was there -- in order to make us laugh , and the miracle is that most of it works . frequently the film falls back on old slapstick gags , but , more often than not , the jokes manage to be funny even you've seen similar moments before . the movie is a delightful throwback to old screwball comedies . there's some funny bathroom humor in the movie , but the majority of the jokes are so clean that they could be in g-rated comedy . ( the movie is pg-13 . ) the game is incredibly simple . it is " the gambling experience of a lifetime , " sinclair explains . the inspired script has the participants initially not participating . it seems as if the race will be a bust without even getting started . -- to its maximum advantage . only rowan atkinson , who acts like mr . bean channeling roberto benigni , is uniformly disappointing . his annoying character , who suffers from narcolepsy , is a klutz . one scene involving a heart could have been eliminated entirely . the fast paced film has lots of hilarious incidents , large and small , but to mention even their setup would diminish their impact . to be fair the film does run out of gas every now and then , but it just keeps plugging away , happy to run on fumes . the ending is something of a disappointment , but at least it is a surprise . it is rated pg-13 for " sexual references , crude humor , partial nudity and language " and would be acceptable for kids around 10 and up . my son jeffrey , age 12 , thought the film was hilarious and gave it * * * 1/2 . he thought the acting was good , the story was imaginative and the ending was surprising . in the silicon valley , it will be showing at the amc and the century theaters . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
mar ? a ripoll's tortilla soup wastes no time in getting to the star of the show , the food . in the opening credits , the father , like a samurai , furiously slices and dices the wonderfully colorful cuisine . this inevitably sets off another sweet squabble . the dialog is uniformly cute . " well , you won't have to look far , " he tells her with a fatherly blend of sarcasm and concern . the casting of the four leads is terrific , and they're so close that you'd swear that they were related in real life . every family should have such a loving foundation . there's not much wrong with this carefully prepared confection . a more substantial problem is xavier p ? rez grobet's grainy cinematography . the sumptuous food deserves a better presentation . but you'll forget the flaws . you'll leave happy and hungry . tortilla soup runs a bit long at 1 : 40 . it is rated pg-13 for " sexual content " and would be acceptable for kids around 10 and up . it is showing at the camera cinemas and the century theaters . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
" why can't i just do what i want ? " the only thing that they're sure of is what they don't want , and that is to be like everyone else . although the acting is flawless , the script isn't . flashes of brilliance are interrupted by sections in which the story wanders aimlessly . these flaws are easily forgiven since the movie is so sharp when it clicks . still , i have trouble understanding the absolutely rave reviews that many are giving the movie since this is far from a masterpiece . although i liked it and , indeed , recommend it , it is a candidate for my list of the most overrated films of the year . the director's previous film was the documentary crumb about controversial comic book writer robert crumb . the casting of buscemi might be considered something of an inside joke given his resemblance to crumb . how uncool is that ? " he's kind of cool . " roberta puts down anything remotely resembling traditional art . enid's cartoon drawings are quickly ridiculed as not being substantial . these half-dozen , randomly bent hangers represent nothing less than " a woman's right to choose . " ghost world runs a little long at 1 : 51 . it is rated r for " strong language and some sexual content " and would be acceptable for teenagers . my son jeffrey , age 12 , who didn't find anything in movie to interest him , gave it just 1/2 of a star . he thought it was boring . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
vivica a . fox , who has had the bad luck to be in some pretty miserable movies , including idle hands and booty call , as well as an occasional winner like independence day , plays shante with a wonderfully compelling mixture of comedic verve and rock solid self-assurance . shante spends most of the time talking directly to us to explain her program , which she does with a winning smile that's hard to resist . shante allows as how , " every gal's got a little 'ho in her , " but shante thinks that there's too much of it in conny . even if writer/director mark brown's two can play that game is rather like a sitcom , it is like a really good sitcom . the characters are all so likeable that you feel sorry to see them leave when the ending credits roll . one of the movie's small jokes is the flagrant product placements , which could be considered the sitcom's commercial breaks . the movie's look , however , from the lush cinematography to the colorful clothing is head and shoulders above anything you would expect to find on television . although this is fox's film , the rest of the cast is superb . " it is merely transferred from one person to the next . " all keith needs to do is to learn how to properly channel shante's energy , and shante has enough energy to power a small nuclear reactor . you'll be pretty charged up too after watching two can play that game . it is an upbeat film with a wonderfully sweet sense of humor . it is rated r for " language including sexual dialogue , " and would be acceptable for most teenagers . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
you also got lanes going straight to hell . " the movie l . i . e . , by commercial director michael cuesta and co-writers stephen ryder , michael cuesta and gerald cuesta , is about a lot of things . it's a tragic coming of age story . it's a story about restless youth . but what you're most likely to hear is that it is about pedophilia . the movie tries hard not to sensationalize this latter subject , but it doesn't back away from it either . one thing is certain . cuesta is an impressive visual stylist . they just like the momentary thrill of almost being caught . it provides them a drug-like rush that numbs the pain of their self-inflicted boredom . howie , a kid with a confused sexuality , is embarrassed to have never had sex with a girl . big john likes befriending young guys , which is certainly no crime . as big john , brian cox , a veteran actor , would be up for oscar consideration for his acting in this role , except there is probably zero chance of the academy nominating an actor playing a pedophile . you can just imagine what hay an ambitious senator could make with that nomination . the film's only downfall is a needlessly pat ending that makes you wish that they would have made one more pass over the script before they started filming . l . i . e . runs 1 : 48 . it is rated nc-17 for " some explicit sexual content , " and would be acceptable for college students . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
hearts in atlantis is a sweet , touching and rather usual film that is based on a stephen king novel . no , it's not a horror movie . but , what is it exactly ? as the story evolves with quiet power , it is never clear where it is going or what kind of movie it will become . a low-key foreboding serves more as part of the ambiance than as a hint of the future . if the movie , directed by scott hicks ( shine ) and written by william goldman ( butch cassidy and the sundance kid ) , must be characterized , it might be as stand by me 2 . the well cast film is a character study that revolves around relationships . the most prophetic of these is , " sometimes when you're young , you have moments of such happiness , you think you're living in someplace magical , like atlantis must have been . young love has rarely been shot with more honesty and delicacy . it is the sort of performance that will have you scratching your head wondering where you have seen her before . the more important question is whether producers will recognize her potential and give her the parts she deserves so that she becomes the next meg ryan and not the next molly ringwald . it is rated pg-13 for " violence and thematic elements , " and would be acceptable for kids around 10 and up . in the silicon valley , it will be showing at the amc and the century theaters . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
the bizarrely named haiku tunnel -- no , it's not a japanese anime -- is a sweetly humorous film that oozes charm from every pore . starring josh kornbluth as josh kornbluth , it is a crowd-pleaser that puts the audience into rolling howls . although not up to the level of mike judge's low budget masterpiece , office space , haiku tunnel is an over-the-top , yet dead-on , office comedy that rings true even when it's the most exaggerated . like a virgin who finally decides to make the big plunge -- " i don't go perm on my first week . " -- he throws caution to the wind and signs up . at first the story looks like it will be a dark , kafkaesque one . along the way kornbluth , who sometimes reminds one of a chubby woody allen , copes with his many neuroses with great flair . a wonderfully likeable actor , kornbluth could easily carry the movie on his own shoulders , and , indeed , the film sometimes plays like a comedy monologue . the supporting cast , which brings an improv feel , perfectly complements the star . my favorite is helen shumaker . in one of my favorite episodes in which josh retrieves his long lost letters -- they were printed on a printer in another building thanks to the screw-up of a system admin geek -- the pages coo and sing to him in chorus , " you've come for me . " they're certain to put a smile on your face . it is rated r for " language and some sexuality " and would be acceptable for teenagers . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
life goes on as a delightful romantic comedy , serendipity , comes to our theaters . someday . this message-in-a-bottle story by marc klein has certain inevitable events , but how and when they occur are the movie's sweet surprises . director peter chelsom has just the right touch with the material . his masterful staging of the predictable ending gives it a graceful subtlety as well as a magical moment . if you promise not to tell , i'll reveal the identity of peter chelsom's last film . i know . it's hard to believe that it could be the same person . ) the two of them have great chemistry , which is hard to do since they have relatively few scenes together . your audience will undoubtedly " ooh " and " aah " a lot as jonathan and sara keep almost connecting . and as you leave the theater , you'll probably let out one long " aah , " as you float away in bliss . serendipity runs just 1 : 25 . it is rated pg-13 for " a scene of sexuality , and for brief language " and would be acceptable for kids about 9 and up . my son jeffrey , age 12 , gave it * * 1/2 . he thought the film was funny but said that he liked cusack a lot better in films like gross pointe blank . in the silicon valley , it will be showing at the amc and the century theaters . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
directed by gary fleder , this entertaining thriller delivers the goods . sure , it follows a fairly standard formula , but you won't mind . there are just enough twists to keep you guessing , and the acting is solid from famke janssen , as jessie's temporarily incapacitated mother , to sean bean , as the omnipresent leader of the kidnappers . fleder , as he did in kiss the girls , keeps you on your toes and ready to be frightened , even if things rarely do go " boo ! " it is anticipation that causes chills not actions . although it is a satisfying film , it's not a flawless one . the script by patrick smith kelly and anthony peckham , based on andrew klavan's novel , has some easily fixed problems and troubling logical holes . and in the missed opportunity category , why do the writers take the time to setup an elaborate mystery around elisabeth's mental condition and then immediately solve it ? what's the rush ? among the film's most satisfying twists is the story's final resolution . in this , the writers don't disappoint . don't say a word runs 1 : 40 . it is rated r for " violence , including some gruesome images , and language " and would be acceptable for teenagers . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
john fawcett's ginger snaps , a horror movie that's a blend of monster movie and teen slasher flick , wastes no time in getting to the blood and gore . in its opening sequence , a toddler starts playing with the bloody remains of his dog . according to the television , it seems that there's some kind of wild animal on the loose . rebels who want nothing to do with their classmates or anyone else , they have personalities both fascinating and repulsive . in the movie's subtext is a female empowerment theme . the wickedly effective performances by the two leads turn what would otherwise be a forgettable , low-budget movie into an intriguing little tale of the macabre . one thing is certain , she won't tolerate the missionary position . the story moves with precision until the last act , which is bloated and too traditionally over the top like a standard low-grade slasher film . most of the movie , however , is quite original and worth recommending to fans of the werewolf genre . those prone to nightmares will need to pass . it is not rated but would be r for strong violence , sexual situations , drug usage and language . it would be acceptable for older teenagers . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
( you remember the controversial wheat chex commercial don't you ? carrie fisher , for example , introduces us to none other than the dog who rocketed to the top of the canine acting charts for his signature role in there's something about mary . even the best mockumentaries tend to delight more with big smiles than big laughs . lisa picard is famous may not be one of the best , but it does find ways to produce some quite large laughs . dunne's cast , including those who play themselves , is great . as the hard working chatterbox with almost enough perky enthusiasm to get herself through any crisis , lisa is endearing . when advil ends up giving her a headache , you'll feel a tinge of pain too . among the many star cameos , fisher stevens gives one of the best . there's also a dark side to fame as princess leia , oops , i mean carrie fisher , confesses . a chilling thought . you may not have to worry about this , but lisa does . all you need to do is sit back and laugh . and laugh you will while watching this little charmer . it is not rated but would be pg-13 for sexual situations and would be acceptable for kids around 10 and up . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
this swedish movie was nominated for an academy award for best foreign film in 2000 , but lost to all about my mother . for my money , under the sun is easily the better of the two . told with impeccable honesty , the script by johanna hald , david neal and colin nutley , based on the h . e . in a compelling , straightforward performance , rolf lassg ? rd plays olof , the large , beefy farmer . although some might see him as ruggedly handsome , most would call him homelessly plain . actually , the farm may be primitive , but it looks quite inviting . with jens fischer's golden-tinted cinematography and paddy moloney's soothing music , the norwegian tourist board should set up a booth in the theater lobby . bookings for norwegian tours should be brisk afterwards . under the sun goes for naturalness where other movies might try for bits of sensationalism to ignite the viewers used to hollywood dramatics . erik is only willing to say the dreaded " i love you " if it quickly gets something in return . the one mystery that keeps nagging at the viewers and at erik is what an attractive 33-year-old woman like ellen would find in olof . the answer to this question isn't quite the shocker that many might expect , but it sets up a touching and satisfying ending to a delightful little tale . the film is in swedish with english subtitles . it is not rated but might be r for sexual situations and would be acceptable for teenagers . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
the movie is absolutely mesmerizing with the images equally gross and engrossing . martin childs's deliciously diabolical production design and peter deming's dramatic cinematography give the picture a stunning look that one hopes the academy will remember when it comes time to vote . the london skyline lit with hellish colors as ominous clouds move overhead is the best of the movie's many memorable visuals . in a profession in which the women look like scullery maids and mud wrestlers , mary is the only one who looks like she just finished shooting a soap commercial . but you didn't really want to see a dirty looking graham when you could see her in all her cream-skinned glory , did you ? jack's crimes are so heinous and disgusting that even the coroner pukes , and frequently . sir charles says , " that's preposterous ! " " i don't know what you're thinking , and i don't care to know , " he tells the inspector . trust me , you're going to want to know . and you're going to be on the edge of your seat , waiting to find out all of the details , even though you'll quickly guess major parts of the mystery . it is rated r for " strong violence/gore , sexuality , language and drug content " and would be acceptable for older teenagers . in the silicon valley , it will be showing at the amc and the century theaters . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
it was produced and directed by wolfgang petersen of das boot and in the line of fire fame . this is a director who knows how to create great tension that really grabs the audience's attention and holds it through out the entire movie . he is also a master at action sequences and the military helicopter scenes in this flick were evidence of his abilities as well as that of the cinematographer . it works so fast that if you are not dead in twenty-four hours after being exposed , you are safe . this germ detective story is excellent and the pacing is good so that your eyes stay glued to the screen . go to the bathroom before entering , you don't want to miss any of the details . it is complex and yet quite easy to follow . outbreak at its best was almost as good . petersen is a master director . after seeing this movie , i should warn you that you may never want to fly in airplanes again . you certainly will find yourself leaving any theater where someone coughs . sad to say , we also learn from the beginning that there is a subplot in the show that is going to have us believe that our military has some covert operations of massively evil proportions going on . without this ridiculous and unnecessary sojourn into again lambasting our own generals , the movie had a perfectly plausible ring to it . the acting was uneven . dustin hoffman , whom i have not seen in many movies recently , stars as the military chief of biological research . hoffman delivers star quality work . also excellent in the show was hoffman's sidekick played by cuba gooding jr . he played the aggressive green recruit character in fresh and interesting ways . rene russo who was so excellent in petersen's last show , in the line of fire , was given a poorly written part as hoffman's domestic counterpart--the head of germ research at the cdc . russo's acting was not credible and moreover , i would just as soon have seen her whole part eliminated . the germ research had the energy to stand on its own and did not need a romantic second subplot to add excitement to the movie . another tragedy of the film was the wasting of morgan freeman as hoffman's commanding general . this was the weakest character freeman has ever been asked to play--very one dimensional . this brilliant actor ( glory , driving miss daisy , the shawshank redemption , etc . ) did not seem to care about the show and gave a pedestrian performance . finally , the less said about donald sutherland's part as the major general who was freeman's boss , the better . both characters were cliches that should not have been in a movie of this caliber . outbreak runs an exciting 2 : 00 . it is rated r for bleeding eyeballs and other makeup effects that you see on halloween masks . there was a 10 year old behind me that loved the movie . i recommend this tension filled detective story to everyone above the age of about 9 , and i award it * * * . absent the unnecessary diabolical military subplot , i would have been able to give the movie another half star . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . reviewed written on : march 11 , 1995 opinions expressed are solely mine & not meant to reflect my employer's . 
muriel's wedding is an australian film that tries to be both a comedy and a tragedy . i laughed out loud at the funny parts , and i got upset and concerned at the serious . this is the classic ugly duckling fable retold for our generation and given a different and imaginative development . so often in this show , you would think you can predict it , and it surprises you . our ugly duckling is muriel heslop from porpoise spit , australia . the names alert the viewer from the beginning that this is a scriptwriter who is willing to go out on a limb with his material . in fact , the script by p . j . hogan , who also directed the movie , is the second best part of the show . there is great dialog through out the show . muriel explains that , " i know i am not normal , but i am working on it . i can change . i can . i can . " the unprintable sexual banter and joking among the young women , i found absolutely hilarious . the best part of the movie has to be the incredible performance of toni collette as the large boned , fairly homely , socially inept , and not too bright muriel . solid logic in their book . i found collette's version of simple-mindedness more convincing than that of tom hanks as forrest gump . gump was cartoon character heroic . muriel is more like somebody you knew in high school and either ignored or felt sorry for . this show really makes you think about life and about how shy and ostensibly ugly people are treated . her happiness was infectious ; i felt instantly giddy . muriel had such a great way of expressing herself . the interesting parts of the show do not stop here . although their roles were all one dimensional , i loved the performances by the actresses who played the ditsy young women muriel hung around with in the first of the movie . their pancake makeup with the glossy light colored lipstick and the 1970s hairdos really said it all . they made fun of muriel because she listened to 70s music when they were more out of touch than she was . i have no criticisms of the movie . for what it tried to be , i think it hit the nail on the head . although we are not talking about comedy on the level of tootsie or tragedy on the level of ordinary people , muriel's wedding , nevertheless , is a special movie . muriel's wedding runs a well edited 1 : 45 . it is rated r for one scene of brief male nudity , some profanity , and very explicit discussion of sex . it is almost a pg-13 show and would be fine for any teenager . i recommend the show to everyone above the age of 12 , and i award it * * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are solely mine & not meant to reflect my employer's . 
this is one of those movies that if it were not true , you would see it and complain about how the screenwriter , director , and lead actress had all stretched believability beyond all reasonable bounds . yet , this is supposedly a very accurate portrayal of the events , and i believe it . you are going to be very surprised about the sequence of events in the show . i did not guess many of the twists and turns . suffice it to say you may think that the writer's name was franz kafka where as the writer and director was ken loach . her performance is so outstanding that both siskel and ebert wanted her to get an academy award nomination for it , and i agree . she plays maggie as the unlikable and tormented character that she is . rock is shaped like the rock of gibraltar and is about as good looking . this seemed like perfect casting to me . maggie is so angry to everyone you find yourself amazed that she has any friends left at all , much less a long succession of lovers . i do not know if the show is ultimately about abuse , anger , or morality--perhaps all three equally . the movie runs about right at 1 : 42 . it is unrated , but would be a hard r for scary , explicit , and bloody domestic violence scenes plus zillions of uses of the f-word . i recommend this show , but only for adults . it is a depressing but enlightening show . i give it * * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . reviewed written on : february 2 , 1995 opinions expressed are solely mine & not meant to reflect my employer's . 
more later on why i say " somewhat . " it stars kathy bates as dolores claiborne in another one of bates brilliant acting performances . selena , likewise , is a walking time bomb of pent up anger about something . it was an interesting and effective editing technique . the two parallel stories work equally well , and thanks to the editing , they are interwoven nicely . the past has lots of abuse , violence , and major alcoholism . i was never quite sure the meaning of this while watching the show . a couple of days later it hit me why , and it made sense . if you see it and can not figure it out , i am not going to tell you the answer . you will have to keep pondering . actually , that you still think about a movie after you leave is a tribute to its effectiveness . the cinematography was certainly beautiful in the golden hues of sunset and in the glow of a solar eclipse . on the other hand , i felt it overpowered the story and would have been more appropriate in another movie . the scenes of dark and depressing grays were also overdone i thought . better to have the acting and the script convey the mood and have the cinematography complement it rather than overwhelm it . the acting was good around with one exception . he is too much of a nice guy , and it showed through . his evil was too one dimensional and was rarely threatening . a thriller needs a strong villain , and dolores claiborne had none . i attribute this problem solely to strathairn and to the directing ( taylor hackford ) and not to the script ( tony gilroy ) . having a weak villain relegated the movie to being somewhat of a thriller with a lightweight mystery attached . with a more effective bad guy , this movie could have really taken off . instead , it became more a character study , which was very effective , and a mood piece , which , as i already said , was overdone . dolores claiborne runs 2 : 11 , but it did not seem that long . it is correctly rated r for significant amounts of realistic domestic violence and for alcohol and drug abuse . i think it would be fine for mature teenagers . i recommend this movie to you , and i award it * * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
the land is bleak and breathtaking and the cinematography ( haskell wexler ) shows it off without ever overpowering a simple story . similarly the hunting irish music ( mason daring ) sets the mood without ever dominating a scene . especially cute seals are prominently featured in a quarter of the scenes in the show . much cuter than those in andre for example . sayles is extremely gifted . of sayles 9 movies , my favorites , in addition to this one , are : matewan , the brother from another planet , and baby , it's you--they are all worth looking for . the movie was very carefully crafted , cast , and acted . all performances were excellent and the movie had a relaxed , deliberate , and measured pace . my favorite acting was that by jeni courtney . although most scenes had her just listening pensively , she was nevertheless moving at it . the movie runs a leisurely 1 : 43 . it is rated pg for its intensity , seriousness , and slow pacing . there is the natural nudity of a small child , but no adult nudity , sex , or violence . i suspect it will be too much for kids under 5 . my 5 23/24th year old boy , as he calls himself , liked the show , gave it a thumbs up and talked about it a lot after the movie . on the other hand , he spent most of the show in my lap since its intensity did scare him , and he hated the scene of the fish being cleaned . kids used to movies with constant and changing action , may not know what to make of this show . for anyone over 4 i certainly recommend it--it is not a kids' show , rather it is a tale that make interest children as well . i award it * * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
the browning version is a wonderful character study of an older teacher of classical languages at an english bordering school in dorset . actually one boy does admit to liking him , and it is because of something this boy does that the movie gets its title . i thought she was great . in this movie however , you feel sad for her and even a little angry at her for cheating on such a great husband . i can not say enough about finney's performance . it would have been easy to cry for him . an extremely touching performance . his slow character development is a testament to his acting ability , to some excellent direction by mike figgis , and to ronald harwood's script that is in no hurry . it is a slow movie , but a well paced one . it is a sad and touching movie , yet ultimately a life affirming one . it has a particularly well done ending . if you like serious and touching shows , if you like well drawn characters , and if you don't mind shedding a tear or two , then i heartily recommend this to you and award it * * * . it runs 1 : 37 . it is incorrectly rated r . actually it is almost pg material except for two uses of the f word . there is no sex , nudity , or violence of any kind . i think most teenagers would love it . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
the last seduction is an excellent black comedy and thriller about lying , betrayal , sex , and murder . it is directed by john dahl and written by steve barancik . she is tougher than nails , never vulnerable , and would do absolutely anything to get what she wants . the movie bears some resemblance to the tough and double dealing of barbara stanwyck in double indemnity ( which i saw about a year ago on cable - check it out some time , it is excellent too ) . the script is sharp and witty . the staccato tone of the script reminds me of some of david mamet's writing especially in his movie house of games . all of this happens in the first few minutes . one of the messages he leaves on her answering machine is " i love you and i am sure the feeling is mutual - you love you too " . there are lots of plot twists - some predictable , some not , and one quite surprising . there are many great scenes . the pick up scene in the bar has never been done that way before and really worked well . in a typical hollywood movie , we would eventually find fiorentino's character's sweet side , but not here - she is a complete and perfectly evil character with no redeeming qualities . it is fascinating watching fiorentino to see what she will do next . she is quite an attractive actress . see if you like the ending . at first , i thought it too abrupt and then decided it was a good ending after all . i have no criticism of the show . if you like black comedy like say harold and maude or double indemnity , you will probably like this show . it is not a movie for everyone , but i certainly recommend it and award it * * * . the movie is not rated , but would be r for sex , some profanity , a little nudity , non-gory and non-bloody violence , and an adult theme . i would not take teenagers to see it ; it is an adult show . it runs a well edited 1 : 50 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
want to really relax and see an enchanting upbeat movie ? want to see a movie that gives you the feeling you had when you were a small child reading books about faraway kingdoms ? interested in true stories that feel like fairy tales ? how about a movie that you can take your kids ( say 8 or older ) to see but are not kid's movies ? like good acting ? like mysteries ? like masterpiece theater type flicks set in rural england ? well , you need to see princess caraboo . i avoided this movie many times figuring it was one of those cutesy films with adults acting like idiots and set in some place like baghdad in the 1500s but with sorcerers and evil spirits . a local reporter ( excellently done by stephen rea from the crying game ) finds her absolutely fascinating and enchanting--as i am quite sure you will too . the mystery in the story does work even though it is a simple one . cates acting really carries the day . it is almost impossible not to like her--a lot . the script was written by the director , michael austin , and i think you will find several surprises since i suspect most people do not know obscure english history of over 150 years ago . the pacing was good and the casting of all parts , even the most minor , was well done . this is not gandhi , but for what it is , i have no complains or suggested improvements in the movie at all . a fun and delightful time at the movies . there is no profanity . i have no idea how it avoided getting a g other than you would need to be about 7 or 8 to like it i think . i recommend it to every one except ebenezer scrooge . i think young girls would especially like it , but i can attest to the fact that males would like this show too . i give it * * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . reviewed written on : october 13 , 1994 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
if you fall into one of the following categories , then i think eat drink man woman should be on your must see list : if you do not fall into one of these classifications ( i fit in exactly one of them ) , then you will probably still really enjoy the show because it is ultimately about human relationships . the colors and textures are totally indescribable . the heart of the movie is not the cooking , although it is worth seeing the movie to watch it . at its core , this movie is about the relationships between a father and his daughters . more that this i will not say about this part of the plot . see it for yourself . the movie was by the director ( ang lee ) of the wedding banquet which , through my own stupidity , i missed seeing . since it was billed as a comedy , i expected this movie to be a light hearted movie . although the movie was too slow in many parts and needed much crisper editing ( tim squyres ) ; nevertheless , i left the movie wanting to know more about the people and what would become of them . the script by ang lee , james schamus , and hui-ling wang was wonderful from beginning to end . it is unrated , but would be pg i am sure . there is no profanity , not much sex , and no violence . any kid who can read could see it , but i think you would need to be 9 or 10 to understand the issues it presents enough to enjoy it . i give it * * * and recommend it to everyone , but especially to those in the categories listed in the beginning of my review . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
you may or may not think this is one of the best movies of the year ( siskel and ebert , i know , do ) , but for pushing the limits of an idea , the movie ed wood by director tim burton has got to be one of the most innovative . i was surprised how much i liked burton's vision of ed wood since i am not a fan of burton's work other than his batman series which i sort of liked . imagine making a movie about a director , edward d . wood jr . , who was voted the worst director of all time . not only that , ed wood made what is widely credited as being the worst movie of all time , plan 9 from outer space . moreover , he also made glen or glenda , bride of the monster , and other such classics . there are two great things going for this movie . if you don't come out of this theater feeling upbeat , you must have gone in the wrong door in the multiplex . if the movie you saw was not filmed ( stefan czapsky ) in glorious black and white , then you saw the wrong movie . actually one of the problems i had with the movie was that it is playing the movie house with screens the size of small states . this is strictly an art house flick . this was a real problem for me . back to the fascinating story . at oscar time , expect to see nominations for best actor to depp and supporting actor to landau . this is one of those films filled with minor actors and actresses you have seen before . fact is stranger than fiction . since i have never liked johnny depp nor tim burton very much , that i am liked this film at all , is probably a testament to just how good it is . if you like burton movies , hey , you are probably going to go gaga over ed wood . as fascinating as the plot of this movie was , i found it lost my interest in parts . there is just so much to say about someone whose specialty is making something terrible . nevertheless , if you like quirky movies or if you are interested in the art of making movies , i am sure you will like this film . ed wood runs a little long at 2 : 05 . the movie is rated r for profanity , cross-dressing , and drug use , but it actually is a fairly harmless movie . i would have no trouble letting older teens see it , and you could take younger teens with you . i recommend it to everyone except the totally non-experimental types--you probably don't want to take " the grandparents " to see it . i give * * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . reviewed written on : october 10 , 1994 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
hey , you want just to have some fun at the movies ? tired of message movies that require deep concentration ? exhausted from watching your heroes battling explosions and run-away buses in action flicks ? i have just the ticket for you . only you is a romantic comedy that is easy on the brain , will provide many moments of laughter , and will leave you with an inner happiness that , gosh , life really is great . moreover , there is a built-in guarantee with this movie . if you end up hating the movie , it is at least a * * travelogue . seriously . italy never looked so lovely . only you's plot setup involves a mystery . i love the choice of the character names . i laughed out loud numerous times . the script is bright and funny . i thought the movie worked slightly better as a comedy than a romance , but i did like both of the romances . i must admit , however , that i liked how one of romances ended , but not the other . since my wife spends time in almost every movie we go to reading the messages she gets on her pager , this line really hit home ! the mystery as you may have guessed is who exactly is damon bradley ? please suspend disbelief on entering so you can have a lot of fun . the mystery is pretty lightweight but does take some tricky turns . the casting of tomei was absolutely perfect . a sweeter , prettier and more innocent actress you would be hard to find . i thought downey might not be up to the part , but he played it as perfectly as did tomei . i found myself particularly intrigued by the hunt character although her romance was supposed to be a sideshow . well , wow ! many linkages too to older movies , but i am never very fond of that cinematic technique . i have no complaints . it did all that it could for its genre . i liked it as much as i expected to like love affair , but did not . i ended up liking love affair about as much as i expected to like only you which wasn't very much . only you runs a nicely edited 1 : 48 . it was basically a g show , but was rated pg . i think anyone older than 8 might be interested in it . i recommend it to you and award it * * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . reviewed written on : october 29 , 1994 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
how much of the story is true and how much myth , i have no idea , but i am ready to accept it all as fact since it seemed plausible enough to me and its degree of truth was irrelevant . a factor is a scottish assistant i guess . the nobility kept saying things like , " i'll have my factor talk to your factor . " kept making me think of prime numbers . you can probably guess what happens to the 1 , 000 pounds . suffice it to say it is the catalyst for this entire episode of rob roy's life , and it is a rollicking good tale as they say . on the whole i liked rob roy , but was disappointed since i expect more . as a soap opera a la an average masterpiece theater episode , it works nicely . we get a lot of vistas and a lot fog . although charming , i think it could have been even more powerful given the inherent beauty of that part of scotland . the acting is good all round . lange and hurt , who are wonderful actors and who have a tendency to overact , were carefully controlled in their emotions in this adaptation . neeson is always good , and he was here as well . easily , the most impressive job was the acting of tim roth . his performance reminded me some of ralph fiennes as the concentration camp leader in schindler's list . he had that same appearance of i look sweet on the surface but i may slit your throat at any minute and without provocation . i found that i did not empathize with the characters as they seemed sort of distant . given all that happened in the show , i should have gotten angry at the villains and scared for the good people . instead , i found myself with a feeling of interest yet detachment . it is hard to put my finger on why other than it seemed too much like a slow soap opera . the editing pace added to the problems . much more of the footage should have been left on the cutting room floor . other than the academy award nomination quality performance by tim roth , there is one other outstanding aspect to the movie - the sword fight scene . there is more than one , but the long one is the one to which i am referring . it is , without doubt , the best sword fight i have ever seen . this time , the editing and the sound effects editing were outstanding . the choreography of this sequence was marvelous . there is no bad language , but there is frequently low , mumbled , and highly accented scottish that you may have trouble following . i think this movie would be fine teenagers of at least modest maturity . i recommend this movie to you as i think almost everyone will enjoy it , and i award it * * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
first , let me clear up a little confusion . there are now two movies in release in the us with almost the same names : fresh and frosh . the movie i saw is a documentary about the lives of a dozen freshmen in a dorm at stanford . clearly , it has the unofficial title of academic freedom today--believe and say anything you want provided it is official politically correct dogma , but more on that latter . in my opinion , documentaries are one of the highest cinematic art forms . they cover a wide spectrum of beliefs from triumph of the will to roger and me . the purpose of a documentary is to allow you to vicariously live in another world , but in the case of a documentary , it is a real world--full of warts , bad grammar , and bad hair days . a documentary , if it is good , will frequently enrage you . at a minimum , it should make you think . three of my absolute favorite movies i have ever seen are documentaries : 28 up , 35 up , and sherman's march . this documentary , although poorly made and constructed , nevertheless , is a full fledged descendent of this art form for it did enrage me , and it certainly made me think . the directing , cinematography , and just about everything in the production of this documentary was done by daniel geller and danya goldfine . as far as the technical merits of the show , it was amateurish in parts . the camera was held fairly steady , but only one camera was used and hence there was too much panning and zooming . the colors were hopelessly faded . they needed a better camera , better processing or something . the editing was a little loose and although scenes had labels , they were pretty arbitrary and overall the documentary was not well organized and constructed . the reason to see this movie has nothing to do with the above technical aspects . you want to see it for the content . in the rest of the review i will cover some of the high points to give you a flavor . based on what was presented in the documentary , the previous statement was a bold face lie . we find kids who almost all think exactly alike , total pc . the parallels with this and the book " 1984 " are chilling . what do these kids believe in ? very little . the only consistent value they have seems to be heavy drinking contests , some dope smoking , or lots of hanging around the dorm arguing what is pc and what isn't . i should point out that the term politically correct is never mentioned explicitly in the movie , but the philosophy is all over the place . reading the constitution , especially the bill of rights , does not appear to be part of the curriculum . on the surface the kids seem bonded to each other , but if you think about it for a minute you realize that there are almost no scenes where they do any actions that show they really care for each other . the movie has no mpaa rating . for the drug use and the frequent use of f word , i would assume it would be rated r , but who knows . i would take my teenager to see it and discuss it with him or her about it afterwards . i rate this a must see for anyone with kids anywhere near or at college age . i recommend it to everyone and give it * * * . it runs a bit too long at 1 : 33 . finally , i would love to see a sequel with the same people in their first real job in life . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
it is not an exploitive movie , but it does manage to work in just about every taboo or controversial subject you can think of from incest to drugs to physical self-love . why in the world would i give this movie a good rating ? have i lost my mind ? well , i rated it such because it is an excellent study of the evils of what horrifically awful parents can do to a child . for purely marketing reasons i suppose , this movie is being billed as a biting comedy . as directed by david o . russell , it is absolutely no such thing . it is a depressing tragedy from the start . the way the father treats the son is pathetic yet realistic . you can feel the pain of the boy . davies's acting is excellent . you get depressed because he is so depressed . the movie certainly lets you know that good grades are not enough and success can not be measured strictly by the college your child can get in . this is a movie that i will remember for quiet a while . it is so controversial , i will make no recommend to see it or not . i will give it a thumbs up and award it * * * . it has no mpaa rating . my guess , given that there is very little nudity in the show , it would have gotten an r ; nevertheless , i think it deserves an nc-17 , and i do not think it is appropriate for kids period . the movie runs 1 : 39 . addendum you may have seen this movie on cnn or read about it in the wall street journal . many people are up in arms over it . frankly , although i am glad i saw the movie , i do not believe the government has any business spending our money making movies at all and so i agree with them . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
steve martin is at it again remaking classic stories in new , fresh , and wonderful ways . his best still is " cyrano de bergerac " , which he called roxanne but which i wish he had called it simply cyrano . this time it is " silas marner " and he titles this one a simple twist of fate , but silas would have been my choice . overall , the original silas marner is a morose story , but with happy parts . martin's version is much more upbeat . even the villains are not that awful . this is a wonderful and realistic movie yet with a fairy tale feel to it at times . you can especially see this in the mystical and symbolic balloon episode . the high points of the movie are the ingenuity of the script and martin's acting . the rest of the characters , especially catherine o'hara as april simon , were all good . the major problem in the show was the miscasting and misdirecting of the villains . baldwin , who was a character you should have really hated , played him way too soft . a simple twist of fate is a very positive and life affirming movie . i heartily recommend it to everyone . it is rated pg-13 , but i thought of it more as a pg show . no profanity that i can remember nor any violence . personally , i would take any kid over say 9 . the movie runs 1 : 41 . i give it * * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . reviewed written on : september 2 , 1994 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
wolf is an excellent movie directed by mike nichols . it is not a horror show although there are some pretty gruesome images . it is not a story about big business although that is the underlying subtext of the entire plot . what is it then ? i think it is a character study of two people's relationship somewhat with each other , but more with life . the acting of a young slimeball by spader is right on the mark . plummer plays his usual bad guy , nothing special . nelligan has a not very well written role as the wife but does a plausible job . the star of the show for me was pfeiffer . maybe if they made him up to look a bit younger and he had lost 20 pounds , i could have believed it was him leaping so high and far . don't get me wrong , i liked him in it , and he did his best , still i think the role was badly miscast . it gets an r rating for blood and gore . teenagers will should be able to see it and will probably like it . i rate it * * * ( almost gave it more ) , and i recommend it . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . reviewed written on : june 21 , 1994 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
the lion king is technically an amazing and dazzling movie . i find it hard to review a cartoon . perhaps , i could start by discussing some of the characters that were made special by the actor's voice . irons is brilliant in everything he does , but i think his best roles were brideshead revisited and reversal of fortune . he can play villains and good guys equally well . james earl jones was the voice of mufasa , and although he was good , i expected more out of one of the most dramatic sounding voices in the movies today . jones could have been a great orator ( read politician i guess ) had he not become an actor . whoopi goldberg was funny as a laughing hyena . i liked everyone except mathew broderick who i felt was too weak and unconvincing as the grown up simba . the movie's strengths , however , were not in the characters . the images and the soundtrack were the highlights . all of the music was very moving . the images had a 3d effect that i have not seen before . there was clear foreground and background in almost every shot , and sometimes they even varied the focus as you would in a " real " movie so that at first the foreground was in focus and then the background . my favorite part of the entire show was the vibrance of the colors . monet would have come every day to see the lion king . sad to say , i can not give it as high a rating as i would liked for two reasons . first , the story and the characters were okay , but they were not as interesting as they could have been . when they have to resort to lots of jokes about gas and bad breath , you know the script writers have run out of steam . second , the main audience for this movie is little kids . and if they felt they had to kill off a character , why be so explicit ? yes , this part of life does happen , but so does rape , incest , drive-by shootings and a lot of other stuff . being true to life does not mean we have to subject little kids to it . by the way , my son spent almost the whole movie in one of our laps , but claimed in the end to have not been scared ( he was clearly scared while it was going on ) , and wanted to see it again . actually , he wants to see lassie even more . i am glad we went , and i do recommend the show with the reservations noted . i give it * * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
i saw the firm , awarded it * * 1/2 , and gave it a mild thumbs up . i avoided the pelican brief because it got such awful reviews . they have not made movies of the first or fifth books yet . i found that liked the movie , the client , for some excellent acting and for the great grisham plot . this is the basic plot set up . there are a lot of twists and turns after that - some predictable , some not . almost every word jones utters is terrific . the script is good , but his delivery is what makes it . i love the way he delivers the lines : " i want that boy in court , manana ! you hear what i'm say'n ? " almost as good is sarandon . she plays a complex character that is both tough and vulnerable . his performance was acceptable at best . i think they should have got a stronger actor or at least the director , joel schumacher , should have given him more guidance . renfro was not convincing enough for me . then again , maybe it was the way grisham wrote the character that i have problems with . there were numerous minor characters of merit . it is correctly rated pg-13 for a little violence and a modest amount of profanity . ( it would be xxx rated for smoking . almost everyone smoked , and they smoked a lot . i think kids over 12 will enjoy the show . i recommend it and award it * * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
we saw lassie at the 7pm show on the local monster screen theater . with us were a dozen other people . guess that hollywood is right . spending $60 million and producing a cartoon gets people a lot more interested that having a low budget classic picture with real actors and a heartwarming story . if i have had been at home and seeing this lassie movie on tv , i would have given up during the first 10 minutes . the initial plot setup and acting were too trite for me . what a caricature i thought . well , hang in there . the plot stays simple and predictable through out the entire movie , but you never mind because it is so life affirming . the bad boys do things like smoke for example . it is a simple fable , well told . there is even an extremely sweet subplot of a romance between the boy and a beautiful and slightly taller girl from his class . the scenes of lassie running up the hill , fording the stream , and bringing in the sheep are all so beautiful . the characters are simple without much depth , but this is a fairy tale not shakespeare . my 5 year old boy was quite scared ( much more than in the lion king ) several times during the show as lassie would get in serious trouble and would appear to be a goner . i recommend it with the warning that it could frighten little ones during the lassie in danger scenes or during the fist fight scene . i give it * * * which is the same rating i gave the lion king . if i had to choose between the two , i would choose lassie every time . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
while you were sleeping is a gem of a movie . while you were sleeping is a romantic comedy and although there is tension and suspense about when peter will wake up and what will he say , it is of minor importance . the chemistry between lucy and jack develops slowly and naturally as it would with reserved characters of that sort in real life . rather than kiss they do some serious " leaning " as they call it in the movie . on the one hand we have a romance that comes alive . on the other hand , we have a comedy full of so many great lines that the audience was in a constant state of mirth . you will have to see the movie to find out how she proved it . the writers also did something unusual . they put in many scenes that were not linked to any other part of the movie . they were there solely to provide some good laughs , and they all worked . my favorite was the paperboy on the ice . the cast did real ensemble acting . it was as if the cast actually was a family . even the character of joe jr . , i thought was well done , and i generally detest characters like that in the movies . one character i wish i had seen more of was the original girlfriend . her character was so outlandish relative to the sweetness of the others that i wanted to see what she was going to do next . the coldness of chicago in winter was a good metaphor for the loneliness of lucy's life . quite a contrast . well done sets by garreth stover and beautiful cinematography by phedon papamichael . i found myself wondering however why they released what was clearly a christmas movie in april . while you were sleeping works because of the excellent direction by jon turteltaub , the witty writing , and the compelling yet highly reserved acting by bullock and pullman . it is rated pg for adult themes . the actors keep all of their clothes on at all times , never say a bad word , and never think a violent thought . i recommend this movie to anyone old enough to be interested in romance , and i award it * * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
director lawrence kasdan's latest movie is a romantic comedy called french kiss . all of his actors have unique and compelling personalities . this was one of his non-epic movies , but it certainly was populated with some fascinating and quirky characters . i want to confess up front that grand canyon was number one on my list in 1991 and big chill was in 1983 so i am huge fan of kasdan's body of work . the writing by adam brooks was quite funny . this piece of slapstick was pathetic and belonged , if anywhere , in another movie . i have no idea why the editor left it in . kasdan's directing was in the style of the big chill but with more comedy and less pretense about the need to deliver a message . granted , there was a message in the movie , but it was subtle and tertiary to the plot and the subplot . my respect for kasdan's craft continues . i frequently will think more of the writer or the director than the actors in a movie because writers and directors are the unsung heroes who are the determinates of whether a picture moves you or bores you . in french kiss , as good as the writing and the directing was , it was ultimately the incredible performance by kevin kline that made the movie . kline is a versatile actor who has made the screen come alive in many other films . my two recent favorite roles of his were in dave and in princess caraboo - both of which i recommend highly . there is no role of his , including his academy award winning role in a fish called wanda , that i liked better . this film has to be rated a must see for all of you kevin kline fans . i would go to see any film with meg ryan in it . she is cute , captivating , and intelligent yet always child-like and vulnerable . in french kiss , she is terrific and yet , her performance pales in comparison to kline's . this is his movie . in the year 1980 , timothy hutton was brilliant in ordinary people . it has been straight down hill for him ever since . he has been so bad in many recent films , e . g . , made in heaven , that they made my worst of the year list . he stays consistent and never bothers to act or show any emotion in french kiss . this is no easy feat since he is being actively pursued by someone as cute as ryan and as drop down dead gorgeous as anbeh . hutton manages to be oblivious to both . major control i suppose or ice water in his veins . the acting by the minor characters is good . reno plays the cop with a fresh approach . i especially liked the acting by anbeh , who takes a minor part with almost no lines , and manages to make the just stand there and look beautiful role interesting . i wish i knew the names of the costume designers and the makeup artists since i think they deserve special mention . the costumes , especially the evolution of the costumes and the makeup for the two women leads was a key to the success of the film . you can see it in the clothes , the make up , and in juliet's later , stark hairdos . the cinematography was striking without ever being traveloguesque . if you notice the fade to black of the most of the scenes , it fades fast at first but then lingers until only a dark shadow against a black background remains reminiscent of a memory locked into our subconsciousness . as someone who grew up in the 50s and 60s , i liked the double meaning of the title . when i was a young boy , a french kiss was a proscribed activity that you giggled about in the schoolyard and yet anxiously and fervently awaited your first chance at it . french kiss runs just right at 1 : 50 . it is rated pg-13 for some bad language , subdued sex , references to drugs , massive smoking by luc , and adult themes . this was crazy for it surely bored them all . for the adult humor and romance , i would say kids older than 9 or 10 would like it . i recommend it to you and award it * * * . for comparison purposes , i should say that i prefer the other current romantic comedy , while you were sleeping , over this one , although they were close enough that i rated them the same . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . reviewed written on : may 5 , 1995 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
you may have heard about crumb from gene siskel who pronounced in late winter that " i do not expect to see a better movie this year than crumb " . director and producer terry zwigoff uses a very traditional documentary style narrative . only other cartoonists , gallery owners , and critics talk directly to the camera without robert there . this straightforward documentary technique works quite well although it means the credit for the show belongs much more to robert , i think , than zwigoff whose main contribution was simply letting the cameras roll and getting robert to agree to talk . he lived in haight ashbury , but never fit in that scene . as a grad student in berkeley in the late 60s , i remember seeing and not caring for his bizarre images . too grotesque for me . he always sits yoga style and sometimes on a bed of real nails . among his more eccentric habits is that of swallowing a six foot long thin , wet cloth so that passing through his intestines it cleanses his body . right . you even get to find out how long this process takes . you will have to see the movie to find out the answer . the points above have barely scratch the surface in the intimate details that this documentary reveals about the whole crumb family . if there is a theme to the show , it must be salvation through cartooning . crumb runs 1 : 59 which was somewhat too long for my taste . i got tired of hearing about robert's sexual habits after a while , and i saw more distasteful cartoons that i wanted . nevertheless , for taking me into a world , repugnant and sad as it was at times , that i have never traveled before and for showing me some tragic characters , i recommend this enlightening movie to you . it is incorrectly rated r . we are shown one x rated cartoon after another so i can not see how in good conscious they gave it anything less than a nc-17 . it is not for teenagers . it is * * * movie in my book . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . reviewed written on : june 1 , 1995 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
pocahontas is an animated movie of incredible beauty . you will have to see the movie to learn disney's ending . although many reviewers have claimed that since disney was only making a cartoon , they could take whatever liberties they wanted with historical fact , and it was unfair to criticize them for inaccuracies . i find this logic specious . lets say disney had made the movie with a homely looking 11 year old pocahontas , native americans who were lazy and murders and englishmen who were risk taking and hard working entrepreneurs . you think those same critics would then claim , well , it is only a cartoon ? but i digress . of disney's recent movies this was the most picturesque - even surpassing the lion king which set a benchmark for cartoon beauty . the colors were translucent and luminescent with pastel greens and blues dominating . so many scenes were striking it is hard to pick the best , but i think the image of the chain of leaves was my personal favorite . it seemed a metaphor of the linking of the characters . there were no poor visuals in the show and many were quite innovative like the ones showing the fog or the ones of the reflected fire . the vast vistas as in the lion king were even more impressively done in pocahontas . the music by alan menkin and the lyrics by stephen schwartz was breathtaking albeit not quite on the same level as the scenic imagery . i hope the lead song wins the academy award . it was lovely - upbeat and dreamy at the same time . the characters were a mixed bag and the script ( carl binder , susannah grant , and philip lazebnik ) was the worse part of the movie . pocahontas was played by a fairly new actress to movies , irene bedard . for my taste , i thought the raccoon meeko and his sidekick the hummingbird flit stole the show . these three characters were just about the only ones given no dialog which is fine given the poor quality of the words the humans and the tree were forced to utter . the best line was smith's " don't worry i've been in worse scrapes than this , but i don't remember any right now " which sounds like it was lifted verbatim from one of the plethora of lethal weapon movies . the worse was the way pocahontas talked . the male native americans were given more authentic sounding dialog . other than the sight gags of meeko , flit , and percy , pocahontas was devoid of any real humor . coming from a studio that produced the lion king and aladdin , i was surprised . it could have used more humor . the actors were not much . gibson's delivery was monotonic and lacking of any real emotion . disney has always been fond of having characters die in its movies . pocahontas was no exception . the way the movie handled it with complete silence afterwards is something i still can not decide if i liked or not . it certainly was different . although this was a cartoon , it is a shame that disney felt compelled to twist , distort , and hide so many key facts and paint their characters in such black and white . besides the problem mentioned in the beginning of this review , there were many more . granted that the native americans were probably better stewards of the land , the good and evil was not quite so tidy as shown in the movie . since the mighty morphine power rangers are getting savaged by the critics because of the toy tie ends , let me point out that pocahontas figures are in all of the toy shops and book stores and in many of the fast food places . moreover , we had to sit through seven , count 'em seven , previews of upcoming disney attractions , before we got to see the movie we paid for . that is over ten minutes of advertisements we were forced to watch . actually , i love seeing previews , but that is another story . pocahontas runs 1 : 20 , and although it does feel a bit short , i liked the pacing . it is rated g , and it is a soft g at that . there is no sex other than a single kiss and no bad language . even the bathroom humor of the lion king is absent . it has some violence , but it is very low key and should be safe for any aged kid . jeffrey , my six year old , gives the movie a thumbs up . he even liked it better than the lion king he said because it did not have the blood that the lion king did . i recommend the show to everyone regardless of age . take the whole family and go see it . given its numerous problem areas ( script , actors , and accuracy ) , i can bring myself only to give it * * * although the good parts are spectacular . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
didn't you always wonder what those toys in your room would say if they could come alive ? this time , in the indian in the cupboard , an imaginative director ( frank oz ) has found a magical and delightful series of children's storybooks by lynne reid banks , and he delivers a tale full of joy as well as some pathos . before i go too far , i do have some surprising news to report . regardless of what you might assume , there are no special effects in the indian in the cupboard ! trust me . i have seen this movie , and the little people in the movie are real . you see the show and try to convince me otherwise . nothing that realistic could be done with special effects . it is the real mccoy ; i am certain . one is an iroquois indian man , little bear , acted by litefoot who i am told makes his living doing rap songs . little bear is brave , courageous , and wise . he is the star of the show , and litefoot delivers a great performance . the interaction between the two of them is more interesting that even that of them and omri or of omri and his buddy played by rishi bhat - another type of indian . the easiest way to frame the story in your mind is that it is the et for this generation albeit the film is not of et's caliber . on the other hand , it is easily the best family film thus far this year . so many movies treat kids as dumb or rebellious . watch how cleverly he solves problems . too bad the movie didn't stop at certain points and say , okay adults , if you are so smart , how would you get little bear out of this fix ? unlike another similar movie , honey , i shrunk the kids , this is not a comedy albeit we all laughed many times . this is a serious show about a magical moment in a child's life . you get to live it vicariously and savor some golden moments . the feeling of the innocence and challenges of your own childhood well up in you . the book and hence this movie takes some wonderful and unexpected twists . the only problem i had was with the script by melissa mathison . without them , the script would have worked just as well . if your nine year old told you he was feeling " damn good " wouldn't you attempt at least to correct him or has society given up the fight against profanity ? i know plenty of cuss words . would you have liked this review better if i stuck some in every now and then for the sole purpose of spicing it up ? what if this was a review to be read mainly by young kids ? would you feel like correcting me then ? finally , why do we have to be so pc these days where the cowboys must be lazy , stupid , and shiftless and the indians noble and brave . imagine the uproar if the character traits had been reversed . it is rated pg for some death and near death scenes and for the useless profanity . it would be fine for any child over say 4 . the violence is handled very tactfully . they watched the show intently and with much seriousness . i recommend the show to kids and to adults with or without the kids , and i award it * * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
according to a recent survey , most americans old enough to remember have forgotten about the ill-fated apollo 13 mission to the moon . let me confess from the beginning that i remembered only vaguely that something happened . apollo 13 is director ron howard's tale of that jinxed journey . howard is an extremely talented director who specializes in comedies such as parenthood and splash and in realistic tales that are told almost in real-time like the paper and backdraft . every actor was carefully chosen . nevertheless , the science and engineering of what they did was the real star of the movie in my book . apollo 13 was the second time human beings attempted to walk on the moon so , of course , americans were bored stiff and did not care . i refuse to relate any more since it is the story itself that makes the movie . the story is incredible . other than the story and the perfect casting , the only other part worth mentioning is the period makeup and costumes . for someone who was in grad school at berkeley at the time , it was great fun seeing again the heavy eye shadow , frosted lips , and strange hair styles on the women and the too tight white shirts with ties , black horned rim glasses , and big sideburns on the men . you also see lots of dirty smoking - think of it as a long antismoking ad given how vile they made smoking look . although i thoroughly enjoyed the movie , almost cried a couple of times , and was fascinated by the innovative engineering solutions they came up with , i found much wrong with the picture , and i expected to like it more than i did . first , i had a major problem with ron howard's directing . from start to finish the energy level in the picture was way below an acceptable threshold . every action seemed drawn out and too low key . it was exactly 45 minutes into the show before anything of interest happened . i know because i was watching my watch wondering when the movie was going to get started . viewing this first part was about as much fun as watching a cricket match . the editor could have easily set up the picture with 15 minutes tops . even after it started clicking , there were many scenes where the astronauts would slowly push button lots of buttons , and we were forced to slowly watch them . finally , given the subject matter , one might expect some incredible cinematography . cinematographer dean cundey's images were okay , but nothing special . apollo 13 runs 2 : 11 which is too long given the pacing . it is rated pg for some mild cussing and for frightening situations . i think it would be fine for any kid old enough to understand what is happening which i thinks means 9 or older . i recommend the show for its history , science , and engineering and for the fascinating story , and i award it * * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
smoke is a touching set of interrelated stories somewhat reminiscent of short cuts . the central theme in the movie is taking life slow enough to get to know your fellow man . i want to state my prejudice up front . i am violently antismoking having never had a cigarette touch my lips , but having lived with parents who smoked like chimneys rotting out their lungs until they gave it up 10 years ago . i complain frequently in my reviews about how hollywood shows more smoking that happens in the real world and how they have too much gratuitous smoking in the movies . nevertheless , the smoking in this almost documentary feeling movie was natural , and i had no problem with any scene in it . they spend a lot of time in talk fests a la my dinner with andre . unlike that film , the camera work in this movie is a central part of its success . the camera frequently will linger at the end of a scene with a close up of a character's face . in the scene with auggie's putative daughter felicity ( ashley judd ) , it ends with felicity giving a silent and yet so emotive and natural series of expressions that several people in the audience burst into tears . similarly the camera angles enhanced auggie's telling of his strange christmas story . this gave the scene great poignancy and drama . the script by paul auster was the equal to wang's direction . although the christmas story was the best scene , the picture book one was a close second . at first paul is not impressed , but then auggie points out that each picture is the same yet if you take the time and look close enough , you can see that they are all different . this is one of the key messages of the movie . to further emphasize the point , the background music is a slow piano playing a beautiful tone consisting only of single staccato notes serving as a metaphor of the single pictures . highly effective . william hurt's acting in the movie may drive you crazy . his speech rhythm and his overall pace is one half or less of that of the other actors . i tried to accept it as yet another symbol of the taking the time to smell the flowers theme . this was a movie with a strong director's stamp . he probably suggested hurt adopt his slow and methodic pace which was my only real problem with the movie . the cinematography ( adam holender ) and the brooklyn sets ( kalina ivanov ) gave the movie a classic low budget feel . the script frequently referred to " the projects " . the enunciation of the words provoked sadness and desperation without wang ever having to show us the locales discussed . many of the scenes and themes reminded me of other wonderful movies i have seen . the theme of chance encounters changing your whole life and spurring lifetime friendships was lifted straight out of that great film , grand canyon . finally , stay to the end as this movie features something i have never seen before . after the credits start to roll , the movie continues and the best series of scenes in the entire show occur . moreover , it provides a perfect ending and extremely upbeat mood for you as you exit the theater . smoke runs a surprising 2 : 05 since it feels much shorter . somehow the lingering editing by maysie hoy and christopher tellefsen manages to make the picture seem shorter rather than longer , perhaps because it captures your imagination so well . the movie is rated r , but it is the softest r i have seen in quite a while . other than a few uses of the f word , the language is pretty clean , there is no violence or sex , and the movie is extremely life affirming . any teenager would be fine at this movie . i recommend this delightful and sweet movie to you and award it * * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
if you are one of those like me who know and love the play , you will have to make a decision early on . you are watching a movie putatively based on uncle vanya that does have some of the same characters , but it is set in a different place with 80-90% new dialog and with a different structure . if you are unable to get past this and enjoy country life for what it is , then i would advise you to leave immediately and see what is playing on the next screen . although i was troubled by the carelessness of the adaptation throughout the entire movie except the last part , i was nevertheless engulfed in country life's characters and story . on the surface it is a simple story , and it happens over a short time frame . deborah feels like a fish out of water in the hot and crude outback . the acting by all of the characters is excellent . her make up , or more precisely the lack thereof , adds to her aura of rural naturalness . even the minor characters like those of the servants are excellent . the most interesting set of characters and events are those involving a love triangle of sorts . the courting , the passion , the forbidden romance , and the hurt are well acted and draw the audience into the story . compelling performances by all three . finally , i am happy to report that about the last 15 minutes of the show is true to the original play and even has much of its dialog and with some scenes almost totally intact . these 15 minutes or so are by far and away the best part of country life . it is correctly rated pg-13 for some sex and major drunkenness . it has no nudity other than a quick shot of max from the rear . there is not a hint of violence . although vanya on 42nd street made my top 10 list for 1994 and i liked it much more than country life , nevertheless , i thought country life to be an enjoyable and excellent picture even if it is a poor adaptation of the original play . i recommend this movie to anyone over 12 and especially to those who like movies with realistic sounding dialog and real characters that make you think . country life gets * * * in my book . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . reviewed written on : august 10 , 1995 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
the brothers mcmullen is a low budget film by new director edward burns that received the top award , the grand jury prize , at the 1995 sundance film festival . for a low-budget film , i was surprised to see that it was released by 20th century fox , and other than the grainy cinematographic images by dick fisher , it was extremely professional and well done . her admonition to barry is " promise me you won't make the same mistake i did . " from the very beginning we see a movie with two intertwined themes . as patrick says to barry , " what am i going to do with my life ? you know i didn't think college was actually going to end . " the other theme or more correctly the subtext of the movie has to do with catholicism in a modern irish-american family in new york city . sometimes they even view this in a positive light as when patrick says , " repression is not such a bad thing . " as you can already see from the quotes , the script by the director edward burns is one of the high points of the film . another one of my favorite lines is when patrick says , " i don't need any new ideas . i'm confused enough already " . these jokes are all hilarious and are made doubly funny since jack mulcahy is a dead ringer for joey buttafuoco . i wondered if the writer realized this when he wrote the script ? the actors and actress appeared to be in their first movies . the best of the actress has to be maxine bahns who had never acted before this movie . i hope she keeps up her acting career . she brings a freshness and an unpredictability that makes for a compelling performance . perhaps it was realistic , but i was bothered by all of the drinking in the show . sure . in addition to all of the points mentioned about , there is also lovely instrumental irish music by seamus egan . finally , many movies , particularly those by new writers , start off well , but run out of ideas by the last act . here the best part of the movie is the way it is all wrapped up . highly satisfying . the brothers mcmullen runs a quick and lively 1 : 37 . it is rated r for low-key and playful sex as well as some profanity . there is no violence or nudity . it would be fine for any teenager to see . i recommend this upbeat and lovely little gem to everyone , and i award it * * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
the usual suspects is a fascinating movie that will reward the careful viewer , but may leave the dilettantes dazed and confused . the star of the show is the escher-print style script by christopher mcquarrie . the plot is dense , but intriguing . it keeps your eyes glued to the screen . an excellent director , bryan singer , assembled a wonderful ensemble cast that has a stronger second string of players that the stars of most movies . moreover , they do not think the cops believe they are responsible for the crime , so why are the cops doing it ? this is one of the delicious enigmas of the story . stay with it and pay attention for there are many more . the plot has more twists than lombard street in san francisco . the interaction of all the characters is both fascinating and unusual . the agent boasts , " let me tell you something . i'm smarter than you are . i'm going to get it out of you whether you like it or not . " to which , verbal retorts , " i'm no rat " and promptly attempts , unsuccessfully , to shut up . the actors were finely tuned and well controlled by the director . only gabriel byrne gave just a pedestrian performance . the others were quite good . the biggest surprise for me was stephen baldwin who gave a performance reminiscent of james woods . baldwin was giddy and hyper in every scene , and you felt like he might explode at any minute . kevin spacey played a part slightly out of character for him , but he was excellent at it . nevertheless , i have liked spacey better in other movies ; see , for example , his wonderful role of the other man in consenting adults . i refuse to say more about the plot other than its central theme revolves around a character known as keyser soze ( pronounced kai-'zer sue-'za ) . this guy is likened to the devil in the movie , but the closest character in fiction would be professor moriarty from sherlock holmes . as the movie unfolds , it is not clear whether keyser soze exists or if he is just a legend . an enigma wrapped in an enigma as they say . this conundrum alone was worth the price of admission . the ending makes the show . i am not good at nor i do not enjoy trying to guess whodunits . in the usual suspects i got part of it right but only part . stay to the end even if you hate the show . how he got his name of kobayashi as one of many mysteries that is wrapped up in the last few minutes of the show . let me say that eating raoul should be required viewing for anyone interested in film as it shows how funny and innovative a low budget picture can be . the camera work ( tom sigel ) , the editing ( john ottman ) , the music ( larry groupe ) and to a lesser extent , the sets ( howard cummings ) were other parts of the movie that gave it high energy and made it so unusual . a typical scene would have sharp cuts to tight close-ups with dramatic music to accentuate the cuts . the lighting was frequently such that part of the character's face was bathed in light and the rest of the scene was naturally dark . frequently the camera angles were strange and the editing was at times and at a pace that surprise you . the movie is rated r mainly for funny , but quite filthy dialog . like glengarry glen ross , the dialog worked . profanity , in my book , is not bad in a movie per se , it just depends . there was a lot of violence of the seeing the blood on wall kind , but i found none of the violence excessive . i think the movie would be fine for mature teenagers . i recommend this picture to you if you like obscure plots where you have to pay close attention , and i award it * * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
if you are like most people , this name means nothing to you . as i was watching the show , i reflected that had i not known that this was a documentary , i could have convinced myself that this was a woody allen comedy about a genius inventor of screwball machines that woody dreamed up because the inventions were so outlandish no one would believe they were real . what makes theremin : an electronic odyssey so fascinating is that everything in the move is true , and the people are not actors . a theremin is a box with a two foot rod , sort of like a lighting rod , on the player's right side and a one foot loop on the left . the player moves his hand toward the rod to vary the pitch and toward the loop to adjust the volume , but never actually touches anything . the theremin sounds like a violin , well actually it sounds more like a halloween parody of a violin . by now , you are probably thinking , why would anyone want to know more about such a silly instrument ? trust me , this movie is spellbinding and one that kept my mouth hanging open during almost the entire picture . moreover , you can see how this instrument was used in many movies and heavily influenced all subsequent growth of electronic music and even rock 'n roll . finally , this professor was a real character that any screenwriter would be proud to have created , except this guy was real . the style of the documentary is of the typical talking heads , but it has the good grace to spend most of the time showing actually black and white footage of the 1920s-1950s when the instrument was in vogue . some were successes and some were not . one of his more intriguing failures was a large mat that one dances on to make music . after much practice , even the best dancers could only produce noise from it . the cake would spin as she walked toward it , and the electronic candle would light . since the theremin had such an eerie sound , it became a popular instrument for movie music in pictures ranging from science fiction ( the day the earth stood still and it came from outer space ) to dramas ( the lost weekend ) to thrillers ( spellbound ) to comedies ( jerry lewis's the delicate delinquent ) . the creator of the documentary ( steven m . martin ) included excerpts from all of the above mentioned films . beside illustrating how effective the theremin was , watching these classics with the sometimes funny , sometimes frightening sounds is a hoot . clara rockmore " wanted to be serious and play bach " , but after an initial positive reaction , the world found the instrument more quirky that beautiful . after spending almost an hour and a half listening to it , i think it is an influential instrument , but one that is more suited to parody than concerts . the documentary does not shed much light on what these bad things were other than some electronic eavesdropping equipment for stalin . martin follows a straightforward and fairly chronological approach to the documentary medium , and it is the material and not martin that gives the show its life . here greenwald overlays and cuts to classical music being produced on the theremin . theremin : an electronic odyssey runs only 1 : 23 , and yet it manages to drag in some spots . it is incorrectly rated pg because brian wilson curses some . it is a g show and any kid old enough to be interested in science is old enough for this movie . there is always a dearth of documentaries . i never miss a documentary , and i recommend that you not miss this one either . for people interested in science , inventions , or music , i especially recommend the movie . personally , i fill all suggestion boxes in theater lobbies with " show more documentaries . " i award the movie * * * for a fascinating , unknown subject . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
well , in this comedy we get both . not only is dreyfuss made to resemble bob dole , he even represents kansas as well . see the documentary the war room if you want to see the real stephanopoulos in action . here the president is not sure what he is for other than getting good poll numbers and being reelected . it is this part of the show that i found very tiring . when i was able to ignore the pedantic political messages , i found a movie that was hilarious . it has been a long time since i laughed so much . the script by aaron sorkin has one great line after another . this is one of many scenes that had me rolling in the aisles with laughter . douglas and bening are both wonderful in the movie . the chemistry between them is strong and believable in every scene . i do hope the writer gets an the academy award nomination . this is a sight gag that really works . the excellent cinematography by john seale has this scene in steel blues and shadows rather than the rich , rosy , and almost regal colors of the rest of the movie . the lush music by marc shaiman is extremely dramatic and romantic . while the president is walking along making small talk , the music reinforces his power reminding the audience that everything the president does is important . the sets by lilly kilvert show the majesty of the presidency while still giving it many human touches . the costumes by gloria gresham again reinforce this duality . the movie is full of great minor characters like sydney's bottom line boss , leo solomon ( john mahoney ) . one of my favorite minor roles is martin sheen as a . j . macinerney , the president's chief of staff . he does not care what the president stands or does just so long as he gets reelected . the first assistant director of the movie is frank capra iii . clearly reiner intends the movie as sort of a homage to capra , and the parallels are strong . dumbfounded , lewis asks , " it's christmas ? " . leon retorts , " you didn't get the memo ? " it is rated pg-13 for a tiny bit of bad language and for references to sex . there is no nudity or violence . i would have rated it pg , and it would be fine for any kid older than say eight . other than the heavy one sided political messages , i loved the show and recommend it to everyone looking for a good time at the movies . it gets * * * in my book and without the unnecessary political indoctrination , i could have given it another half star . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
mute witness is a hitchcockian film that tests the limits of good taste , but nevertheless is a real treat if you can appreciate strange , off-beat movies . i predict many people will be turned off by it and a fair number will walk out , but i was surprised at how much i thoroughly enjoyed it . mute witness tells the story of an american film company shooting a low budget picture in moscow . the central premise of the movie is that billy accidentally witnesses a porn film being made by sergei karlenkov where the actress in it is actually stabbed and murdered . despite its frequent crudeness , mute witness works for two reasons . first , you keep being tricked on what is real , and what is fake ; who are the bad guys and who are the good . second , first time movie actress mary sudina gives a compelling performance . when she is in danger , it feels real and her performance makes you sincerely care for her character . i hope to see sudina in many more films since she has a lot of talent . anthony waller is a first time director and writer who is innovative , shocking , and involving . assuming you do not get turned off by the psycho style violence and leave immediately , you will find yourself being drawn into the complex web of the story . the movie is like a one of those paper mazes where you are trying to help billy find her way out to a safe spot without moving her into one of the many squares where she will be killed . waller has seen and learned from many of hitchcock's best movies . another complication is that billy can hear fine , but the people who may or may not be bad guys speak in russian , and she can not understand a word they say . the special effects are simple but effective . is that supposed to be real blood or fake , a real gun shot or a blank ? the cinematography by egon werdin , the editing by peter r . adam , and the camera work also by director/writer waller use many dramatic cuts . one minute we are watching a scene where someone is being stabbing with the blood ( or is it really blood ? ) spurting to a scene of rare meat in a restaurant being sliced . vegetarianism may find many converts from the people who see this film . there are many little treats in the show . for one the dialog is frequently quiet funny without any traces of being slapstick . i refuse to give away his identity , but i did read that he made the scenes ten years ago when the director first had the idea for the movie . the director just keep the scenes in the film canister . if you see the movie , you will recognize him . just as soon as you think you know what is real and what isn't , you find out you don't , and this confusing state keeps iterating until finally the truth is revealed . whew . it is rated r for sex , nudity , and lots of blood . i found the blood a little shocking but not overdone , nevertheless , i think the film borders on being nc-17 and is not appropriate for teenagers . if you feel like something out of the ordinary , and you like mysteries , i recommend mute witness to you . it was a * * * movie for me . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
sense and sensibility is the latest jane austin movie to come to the big screen . taking her first crack with a movie script , emma thompson adapted the novel for the cinema . for the director , we have the wonderful and imaginative ang lee from eat drink man woman among other highly acclaimed movies . to compliment these , almost all of the roles are well cast . the result for me was an excellent movie , but one , nevertheless , that disappointed me and found me checking my watch during the slow parts . perhaps my disappointment lay in having recently seen similar but much better film adaptations in persuasion by jane austin and feast of july by h . e . bates . he proclaims that , " all i want , all i've ever wanted is the quiet of a private life , but my mother wants me distinguished . " eventually , edward falls in love with elinor , but marianne is not impressed , declaring , " can love really be satisfied with such polite affections ? a soap opera of the highest caliber . many wonderful scenes abound . the best is a sad scene of marianne in blowing cold and gray rain while dramatic music plays . many small scenes were wonderful too . the best piece of acting is by kate winslet from heavenly creatures . she is a stunning actress who shows more emotion that everyone else in the movie combined . i hope to see her in many more films . the brilliant emma thompson gives a perfectly acceptable performance , but one of the least impressive of her career . hugh grant plays hugh grant and sticks to a single awkward expression . emile francois and gemma jones have small parts but do a lot with them . imogen stubbs , best in the great , but largely unknown movie a summer story , gives a fetching performance . as villains , they are never believable and play their roles as too much of a caricature . the best part of sense and sensibility may be the costumes ( jenny beavan and john bright ) , especially the men's hats with the large flowing brims . made me want to run out to my local haberdasher - too bad hats are no longer in high fashion . the sets by luciana arrighi are highly evocative of that era . the cinematography by michael coulter does a good job of bringing out the inherit beauty of the surroundings . now for the problems with sense and sensibility . the emotional punch of persuasion rarely occurs here ; there just is not enough tension and passion . given the high energy of his other pictures , i remain nonplused why he approached this movie the way he did . the slow editing by tim squyres must also share some of the blame . in an otherwise enjoyable show , i found myself getting bored at times . admittedly sense and sensibility has a wonderful ending and people do leave the theater with an upbeat feeling even with all of its flaws . sense and sensibility runs a long 2 : 15 ; my seat was complaining well before the end . it is rated pg , but is totally non-offensive g fare . i think it would interest kids over about eight . even though i was quite disappointed by the film , i did like it a lot and recommend it to you . it gets * * * in my book . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : december 15 , 1995 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
like the even better movie das boot , which i thought was fascinating , stalingrad is a chillingly effective picture . stalingrad by director joseph vilsmaier is an effective anti-war film that has more in common with all quiet on the western front than with any other film . the film is so anti-war , that you leave the theater wanting to find a newspaper , pick the first war you read about , and leave to go protest against it . very effective . gore , mein gott , does this show have gore . given what they were depicting , i do not think the violence is gratuitous , but you may want to bring one of those airline barf bags with you to the show . you will see lots of limbs blow away with bloody cartilage dangling in the wind . in one scene we see a war time amputation with a less than sharp knife . blood flows everywhere . there is no glorification of war in this movie whatsoever . there is a long sequence about some of them trying to go awol that is reminiscent of catch 22 . the show is genuine in its emotions . an old timer consoles him by telling him , don't worry , i've done it myself . the cinematography ( rolf greim , klaus moderegger , and peter von haller ) deserves lots of awards . although the film is realistic , the music ( norbert juergen schneider ) is overdone and would fit better in one of those pseudo-epic films . the costumes ( ute hofinger ) and the sets ( jindrich goetz and wolfgang hundhammer ) effectively illustrate the horror of that time and are excellent . like das boot , the small items add realism . the movie depicts all germans above the level of captain to be sadists . stalingrad runs 2 : 12 , but the effective editing by hannes nikel makes the time go by fast . it is in german with easy to read english subtitles . this gut wrenching film is unrated , and knowing the mpaa they would probably give it an r . personally , i think it is definitely nc-17 . it would probably be okay for mature teenagers over 16 . i recommend this show to you , but i think it sad to say that probably few people will ever see it . the theme of this movie cries out to be seen . finally , i award the film * * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
sabrina is a surprisingly delightful and fresh romance . i went to this show solely because my wife wanted to see it . i suspected and feared it would be one of the shows so sweet it could induce a diabetic attach , but was surprised at what a naturalness sabrina has . it is a show that quickly worked its charms on me for many reasons , but most of all for the acting by julia ormond and strangely enough for her makeup ( joseph campayno ) - more on both of these later . the tale of sabrina has been done before and many critics have complained that the 1954 version was such a trivial film that there was no point in producer and director sydney pollack doing a remake . after seeing this version , i disagree strongly . this movie touched me , and i'm glad i saw it . they would never allow it . " a disappointed sabrina leaves for paris stating the show's frequently mentioned notion , " paris is always a good idea . " i'll second that . well , sort of . it is this love triangle that makes up the body of the show . although many things are special about this picture , first and foremost is julia ormond's acting . i have not been a fan of hers before . i thought she was acceptable but no better in legends of the fall . i found her performance flawless and would love to see her nominated for an academy award for it , but i am sure the members of the academy will view the movie as too light weight for such consideration . her character has two stages in the movie , the immature girl with the crush , and the fully developed beauty . she plays both in an understated natural way that is absolutely captivating . sabrina is created by a marvelous makeup job . maude's gown in contrast is horribly overdone with a large purple sash , and mrs . tyson's is a plain white frock that could be found at any goodwill store . it would have been easy to overdo this , but ormond gives a child like innocence to even her adult role . one of the most compelling performances i have seen this year . the other actors are not as good with the exception of greg kinnear who looks a lot like gary sinise . the first is hilarious and the later incredibly romantic . harrison ford starts off acting like he wishes he had not agreed to make the film , but as the movie progresses he warms up to his role . angie dickinson pathetically overacts in the few scenes she has . richard crenna , who has been great in many a tv movie , is wasted here as he so frequently is . see , for example , his silly role in jade . nancy merchand gives a mixed performance as the mother , sometimes she is funny and other times she overdoes it . some of the minor actors are quite good . dana ivey as linus's secretary is really cute . it was like the shroud of turin . " the script by barbara benedek , david rayfiel , and samuel taylor is both romantic and funny . the dreamy piano music by john williams adds to the ambiance of the picture and makes you ready to fall in love with sabrina . the lighting is particularly impressive . watch how it caresses sabrina's face making it seem to glow from within . the cinematography by giuseppe rotunno takes advantage of this lighting to create a beautiful film to watch as do the expensive and impressive sets by brian morris . sabrina runs a brisk 2 : 04 , but it feels like a much shorter movie . the movie is incorrectly rated pg . this is a g movie as there is no bad language , sex , nudity , or violence of any kind . if your kids are old enough ( 8 ? ) to be interested in romance , they would like this film . i am not fond of the term " date movie " , but if the term means anything , it would certainly apply here . although the movie is perhaps not great art and it does have flaws , i strongly recommend everyone see ormond's performance and catch the rest of this show as well . i give it * * * , and if the ford's performance had been better , i could easily have given it more . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : december 22 , 1995 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
blink is a very good show with only two things " wrong " with it . first , it is being billed as a thriller . a thriller is something that scares you and , other than a brief pet in danger scene , there is nothing in this show to scare anyone . this is nothing to be ashamed of because it is a excellent mystery with a well laid out plot and characters you really care about . i thought another flaw was the script . i was angry at the writer while seeing the movie in that a key part of the mystery was too obvious . well , it turns out not to have been obvious after all , and i guessed incorrectly . almost everything is right about this show . the plot is fascinating . the plot has much more complexity than this but i found this pretty fascinating . many mysteries have ridiculous endings that spoil the show . this writer clearly had the ending in mind all along and did a good job of it . the woman is not your stereotype of a blind woman like say meg tilly would play one . she is vulnerable but quite strong and very feisty . they have a stormy but highly realistic romance . the f/m ratio ( f-words per minute ) is quite high in this show , but like glengarry glen ross , where it reached an all time high , it works . most shows with high ratios are garbage . the script ( dana stevens ) , especially the interplay between the romantic leads , is strong and intelligent . blink was directed by michael apted . he directed two of my all time favorite movies , 28 up and 35 up . the movies are among the most fascinating and innovative i have ever seen . sad to say , this director also did thunderheart which i loathed . blink runs a well paced 1 : 46 . it is rated r for the f-word ratio , nudity , violence , and sex . it would be okay for mature teenagers i think . i recommend the movie to you and award it * * * . this movie was a pleasant surprise and i was tempted to rate it a little higher . see it ; you will enjoy it . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : january 29 , 1994 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
a delightful plot . the direction by mike newell in this and most other scenes is right on the mark . the characters are all written as fairly shallow people , and their lines have no subtle hidden meanings . the writer was content with just making a very funny and light hearted comedy . it really works . many lines are hilarious . he has filled the script with more interesting characters that you can count . the third string characters in his script are quite funny . he cannot speak , but there is more funny sign language than i have ever seen in a movie . although this is not the sort of movie that you will think about next year or even next month , you will have a very good time at it . four weddings and a funeral lasts 1 : 57 , but it seems much shorter due to careful editing ( jon gregory ) . it is rated r , but it is a light weight r . teenagers should love this show as well as adults . take a date ; it's great fun . it made * * * in my book and is certainly a thumbs up . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : march 28 , 1994 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
sirens is a witty , fanciful , and wonderfully upbeat comedy with a dramatic side as well . the women , i believe , are all relatively newcomers to the screen . all of the performances were delightful . the nude models were played like pixies . when they smile , joy leaps through your heart . many great scenes in the show . the pixies swinging in the glimmering moonlight was magical . there was a drunk who said an unprintable 2 word phrase again and again that was very funny . the cinematography ( geoff burton ) was superb . the night scenes with the exaggerated back lighting of the moon were lovely . duigan directed them so that it seemed as if these actors and actresses had been working together forever . it is rated r . if a lot of female and male full frontal nudity is a problem for you , then skip sirens since it is best described as a very nude enchanted april ; otherwise , i recommend this show to you and give it * * * . it is a fine show for teenagers unless they are sensitive to nudity . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : march 14 , 1994 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
china moon is a poor mystery but a good mood piece by director john bailey . it reminds you of a sultry melodrama from the 50s , but rather than being a caricature , it is a fresh portrait . it is easy to go with the flow of this picture and really enjoy it . it never taxes your brain , but it does put you in the mood of the story . the real reason to see china moon , however , has nothing to do with this " mood thing " . go see it if you like movies with two very sensuous leads a la body heat but better . madeleine stowe and ed harris light up the screen . the romance is better than the last show ( blink ) that stowe was in although i must admit blink was better overall because its mystery worked . just watching stowe before she speaks is a joy . reminds me of shakespeare's " she speaks , yet she says nothing ; what of that ? " . an excellent actress i hope to see in many more roles . ed harris , whom i do not remember seeing in a romantic part before , is her equal . the script by roy carlson will present a problem for many viewers . it is easy to listen to the dialog and think this is pretentious and kind of ridiculous . alternatively , you can view it as , well , poetic . i am in the latter category . the nighttime cinematography ( willy kurant ) is impressive . made me want to wait for dark and for a lake to see if it was really that lovely and dreamy . the studio has had this movie on the shelf for a while . i read that only after blink did so well , did they dust it off . china moon runs an easy 1 : 33 . it is rated r , but i think it is fine for teenagers . i recommend this to you and award it * * * . if you have a romantic or a poetic side , i especially recommend it to you . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : march 7 , 1994 
nevertheless , the love the sisters have for each other shines through this adversity . georgia ask sadie , " what are you drinking ? " , and sadie replies , " you know me . whatever is cheap or free . " sadie is an awful singer with a scratchy and irritating voice . during her first long song , people started piling out of my audience and heading to the lobby for refills . there is one long songfest that she has towards the end that made me want to jump up and scream " cut ! " this part reminded me of part of one of my favorite movies , the big chill . we're all scared and there are more of us all the time . " she keeps getting frailer and frailer throughout the movie . toward the end , i was ready to cry she was so sad . and yet , this movie is not a downer . at its heart and soul it is about intense sisterly love . jennifer jason leigh's performance is riveting . my only criticism of her acting is that when sadie is sober her mannerism do not change . mare winningham has a hard role to shine in , but she is up to it . the chemistry between the two of them is genuine and believable . sadie's heavy black eye make-up gives her both a wasted and a trendy look . the script ( barbara turner ) is written smart and insightful . i thought i had the ending figured out , but i didn't . finally , much credit has to go to the highly controlled directing by ulu grosbard . it is correctly rated r for heavy alcohol and drug abuse , bad language , some nudity , and a little sex . it is a very serious show that would be appropriate only for mature teenagers . this movie is filled with riveting performances , and i recommend it to you . it gets * * * from me . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : january 15 , 1996 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
mr . holland's opus is the classic fictional story about a teacher who uses rock 'n' roll to teach untalented kids to appreciate music . he uses little witticisms like " there's more to music than notes on a page " and " playing music is supposed to be fun " in attempts to awaken and inspire his stoic students . in a great performance w . h . macy is vice principal gene wolters . the corny but fun script ( patrick duncan ) is peppered with great little one liners . the secondary theme in the show surrounds mr . holland's family . in a scene that will tear your heart out , col throws a temper tantrum at age 6 because he can not communicate with his parents enough even to tell them his most basic needs . hands down , the best actor or actress in the whole movie is jean louisa kelly who has a small but important role as rowena morgan . when she sings or acts she casts a spell on people in the movie and in the audience . a great voice and a mesmerizing smile . i'd love to see her up for an award for supporting actress , but i am sure she will be ignored in favor of olympia dukakis's more traditional performance . i find richard dreyfuss an uneven and hence frustrating actor to watch , but in mr . here dreyfuss is a master at manipulating the audience's emotion for maximum effect , but yet he gives a restrained rendition of the character . mr . holland's opus is sappy and predictable . it uses a lot of stock film footage of the vietnam war to remind the audience of the tragedy of that era . the editor ( trudy ship ) is quite adept at cutting at just at the right moment between tragedy and joy and between the movie and the old film clips of that period . this is definitely a message movie . principle wolters sums it up with , " if i'm forced to choose between music and reading , writing , and long division , i choose long division every time . " this is contrasted with mr . holland's view that " the day they cut the football budget in this state , that will be the end of western civilization as we know it ! " the ending is a full blown tearjerker . at least it ends on a complete high note ( pun intended ) . mr . holland's opus runs an incredibly long 2 : 22 . i think this is completely unnecessary since this is not gandhi , but i must admit it did keep my attention , and i never looked at my watch . the movie is incorrectly rated pg . this is a g movie where i think they said a couple of cuss words just to keep it from getting a g rating . there is no sex , nudity , or violence . there is a key scene where one character kisses another on the cheek . i recommend the movie to you and give this sweet , upbeat tearjerker * * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : january 31 , 1996 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
broken arrow is a non-stop action film by the hong kong master action director john woo . don't waste your time seeing this film in anything less than your local monster screen house . this is the type of movie for which they made digital sound , and there is enough low base to rumble you right off your seat . some of the noises are so loud that you may find yourself jumping straight up in the air . it has more explosions that i have ever seen in any film plus it has almost much fire as in backdraft . i judge action films by how much they get your adrenaline pumping , and by that metric , broken arrow really delivers the goods . every punch sounds like small bombs exploding , which is a metaphor for the rest of the film . i know you love having the power of god at your fingertips . " giles wants to be taken seriously so he tells hale that , " just for the record , i'm not entirely a civilian . i was a lieutenant in the rotc at yale . " the chemistry between the two of them is similar to that of sandra bullock and keanu reeves in speed . i must confess , that although i admired samantha mathis's performance , i think sandra bullock could have done even it better . actually , i wish the romantic potential between hale and carmichael had been more fully developed . the script by graham yost is fast paced and extremely funny . travolta is menacing and well cast as a bad guy . here he proves that he can play good guys who are tough as well . although it has excellent acting , directing , and writing , the real reason to see broken arrow is the action and the stunts . although it does not come up to the tense pacing of speed , the show really sizzles with extremely realistic special effects similar to , but much better than , those in true lies . the action sequences here are innovative , e . g . , car chases , but in hummers and explosions , but thermonuclear ones . the great editing by joe hutshing , steve mirkovich , and john wright add to the tension of the special effects . broken arrow is a movie where it is easy to suspend disbelief and ignore the numerous implausibilities in the plot since overall it feels sufficiently real . although i can not prove it , i believe that hale and carmichael managed to kill 35 of the 20 bad guys in the movie . the film is rated r for violence and a little bad language . there is no sex or nudity . the violence , although sometimes bloody , was more often like a western where the bad guys get shot rapidly and die quickly . this movie would be fine for teenagers . broken arrow provides a fast paced and exciting time at the movies , and i enjoyed it thoroughly . i think you would too so i recommend this show to you and give it * * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
the voting before we went was running about two to one that we should take him , but there was a vocal minority warning us that since jeffrey can frighten easily , we should not get anywhere near the show . five minutes into the movie , jeffrey was in my lap declaring , " we should have gone to muppet treasure island . " notwithstanding his periodic fear during the film , we all three loved it immensely . it is a great mixture of action , humor , special effects , and poignancy . the story skips ahead to 1995 . the logo for this show should have been a whirlwind . getting sucked into the game is pictured as a whirlwind , and the frantic and marvelous pacing by director joe johnston sweeps the audience in as well . a wonderful roller coaster of a good time at the movies to use another metaphor . and funny . the script by jonathan hensleigh , jim strain , and greg taylor , which is based on the book by chris van allsburg , is naturally hilarious with great sight gags . among my many favorites were the monkeys driving the police motorcycle and the one of the flood , but there were many more . the beauty of the story itself is that it naturally sets an horrific pace . be sure and take everyone to the bathroom before entering , you will not be able to miss a minute of this . after the story , the director is the one who deserves the most credit . he knew exactly what he wanted to do and executed precisely . usually extraordinary special effects , as these are , dazzle the audience and focuses the audience's attention on the mechanics of the effects . here , the special effects , i . e . , all of the animals , were great , but they complimented the story rather than dominating it . all of the actors were fine albeit not on par with the story or the directing . robin williams was well cast as a serious and sad character , and the director keep him in control so that williams did slip into his comedic role . it is rated pg for violence , e . g . , a stampede of rhinos , but no one gets killed in the show . there is no sex , nudity , smoking , etc . except for the violence , and that is a big except , this would have been a g rated show . there are no swear words in the show , a minor miracle today . jeffrey says he would recommend it for kids 5 or 6 and up , and he enthusiastically gives it two thumbs up . his dad recommends the movie , but still would caution parents of kids under 10 that the special effects can be terrifyingly real . what if you walked into your bedroom now and a real lion roared at you from your bed ? would you be scared ? finally , i award it * * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
director brian henson's muppet treasure island is a hoot . the wonderful script by james v . hart , jerry juhl , and kirk r . thatcher , is an imaginative retelling of the classic tale by robert louis stevenson and is a laugh riot . moreover , the visual hijinks come fast and furious and the sets ( val strazovec ) and the costumes are lavish and great fun as well , especially in the production numbers . the editing ( michael jablow ) is crisp , and the movie pulsates with high energy . the movie could easily be classified a musical since it has so many songs ( barry mann and cynthia weil ) and so much music ( hans zimmer ) . i would recommend seeing the movie in the theater and buying the tape when it is released . in the first of many non-pc lines , rizzo says , " it's some kind of a blind fiend " , but gonzo corrects him , " i believe they prefer visually challenged fiend . " in fact the movie never takes its self seriously . it keeps poking fun at itself with one self-deprecating line after another . the picture is filled with humor for various ages groups to ensure that the script provides the requisite amount of laughter for its complete demographics . the movie is full of great minor characters , although no one is as good as the main characters already mentioned . his voice lacked substance and his lack of real singing ability stood out among the other more accomplished actors and singers . actually , bishop's acting , and a tendency of the show to drag a little bit toward the end are the only criticisms i have of the movie . there is some violence in the show , but it is not threatening and is more reminiscent of three stooges mayhem . this is cool ; i may have a future in the nba . " right now i'm somewhere between bedwetting and a near death experience . " their costumes then turn to bright primary colors filled to overflowing with fruit . in another musical number titled " when you're a professional pirate , you're in the best company " , we get great lines including , " i could have been in politics because i've always been a big spender . " it is correctly rated g with no sex , nudity , or bad language . i have already covered the quite mild level of violence which i think is handled perfectly . i recommend this movie to people of all ages - with and without kids . jeffrey gave the film two thumbs up and was never scared . haruka gave it a thumbs up , but claimed she was scared a little bit which i never detected while watching her . neither child wanted to crawl into our laps which is a miracle for my ever lap hopping son jeffrey . i happily award the film * * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : march 2 , 1996 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
also unlike the sequels , it is directed by a well known director , don bluth ( the pebble and the penguin , thumbelina , all dogs go to heaven , an american tail , and the secret of nimh ) , and the people doing the voices are mainly known actors and actresses . like the sequels , but better , it is full of the delightful merriment of childhood , albeit dinosaur childhood not homo sapiens . for a sweet and simple little picture the whole family can gather round the tube and watch with delight , this one delivers the goods . this is a tale with a purpose and a destination . kids watching the show will learn lessons but not in the usual heavy handed fashion of some kids' message films . it whispers so listen carefully . " the best movies aimed at younger audiences are careful in the way they handle the fears of life . some pictures cop out and lack tension or interest since they are so sanitized that nothing exciting or scary ever occurs . other put in frightening scenes , but overdo it . here the writers , judy freudberg , tony geiss , and stu krieger , have a deft touch in putting together just enough tension , but not so much that little ones , say 3 or 4 , can not handle it . i liked the way the screenwriters had the dino kids get words mixed up as human kids so often do . the drawing style is far removed from the painstaking constructed and dramatic realism of a disney animated feature . different in this case does not necessarily mean inferior , instead the land before time possesses a minimalist , but warm and natural beauty . the animators use stark colors of oranges , blues , and greens and then underdraw the images to craft a simple and almost surreal landscape . i found it lovely . perhaps my favorite part of the movie is the music . not surprisingly , it is rated g , and there is not a single bad word spoken . this film would be fine for children of any age although there is always some risk that sharptooth might scare them a little bit . i recommend this film to anyone young at heart and give it * * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
it is an extremely moving tale that points to the ultimate hopelessness of the human condition . the script by claude berri and arlette langmann and the direction by claude berri pull no punches . this is a movie that rarely considers the gray areas , but paints everything in sharp contrasts . everything is either good or evil ; there is no middle ground . periodically , we glimpse the possibility of a few redeeming features in the rich , but generally they are portrayed as the devil incarnate . although the number of contrasts the film metaphorically presents seem innumerable , the ones that struck me the most were : rich vs . poor , day vs . night , above ground vs . under ground , light vs . dark , opulence vs . frugality , green vs . brown , workers vs . bosses , and capitalism vs . unionism . if you watch for them , you can see many more , and this contrast provides an extremely effective and propagandistic albeit one sided reading of history . the other , an anarchist i guess , says the only solution is to burn down all of the mines and factories and only out of this utter destruction will salvation arise . what a great bunch of choices zola provides ! we can change this lousy world . " within a week you'll all starve . then what will you do ? " the smallest increase will bankrupt me . " the second part of the film deals with the chaos that ensues once a massive strike is underway . the film ends well , but it is both dramatic and frightening . the acting is brilliant all round . there are many scenes where their acting is right on the edge . the supporting cast is also good , except for the bosses , but then again , they are made to seem so shallow that it would be hard for an actor to shine playing one of them . the cinematography by yves angelo is somber and striking , full of brown and black sepia tones . the sets by thanh at hoang and christian marti are evocative of great horror and misery . the most frightening scenes are those of the claustrophobic sets for the mines . the make-up by joel lavau and nathalie louichon provide just the right feel of the grit on a coal miner's face . germinal runs too long at 2 : 50 , and i would have preferred editor herve de luze to have made the movie not such an epic length . the film is rated r for sex , nudity , and violence . most of the film has little violence , but there are a few needlessly horrific scenes , including one of castration , that should have been edited out . nevertheless , it is my judgment that the movie would be fine for most teenagers . i liked the movie , recommend it to you , and award it * * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
one , conspiracy theories will abound , and two , this will be a fascinating show . think of him as oliver stone smoothed down a bit . you may think you know the answer . you may be wrong . the ending is excellent . i am a big fan of courtroom drama of which there is not near enough in the modern cinema . in music box , the trial makes up the large central portion of the picture . it is excellent and the best part of the show . the acting for jessica lange , which got her an academy award nomination , is unsettling . the performance by armin mueller-stahl is as powerful although not as elaborate as lange's . he has a presence and a look which simultaneously evokes contradictory feelings of confidence and doubt in the audience . watch especially how much energy radiates from his eyes . there are a lot of excellent minor performances , donald moffat as the anti-semitic father-in-law harry talbot , lukas haas as the trusting son mikey talbot , and my personal favorite , j . s . block as judge silver , showing us how a judge in a controversial case should act . this could have served as judge ito's training film . the script by hollywood's controversial writer joe eszterhas is strictly edge of the seat material . overall , the effect of the script , the direction , and all of the acting make for a highly moving film . music box runs a little too long at 2 : 04 . it is rated pg-13 for a few bad words and a controversial subject . there is no sex , nudity , or violence , but they talk about some horrific crimes . the show would be fine for teenagers . for kids younger than that , consider the material about the crimes in making a judgment , but in no case would i recommend the movie to kids under 10 . i recommend the movie to you and award the film * * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
their latest film called james and the giant peach features their claymation , as known as stop-action , images that are their trademark . this time their vision is exuberant and only infrequently morose . the grasshopper ( voice by simon callow ) is an intellectual , the ladybug ( voice by glynis johns ) is a sweet older lady , the spider ( voice by susan sarandon ) is reserved and misunderstood , the earthworm ( voice by david thewlis ) feels like he is always being used , and the best one of all , the centipede ( voice by richard dreyfuss ) , is laugh central . as the jocular main part of the film picks up , the cinematography ( pete kozachik ) makes an abrupt transition and the colors switch to rich and lush oranges and blues . the show is more than just fantastical sights like the giant mechanical shark that attacks them . it also has a plot and a clever boy to guide it . what would you do if a shark attached your giant peach ? bet you didn't think of that one ! his secret is that , " when i have a problem , my mom and dad taught me to look at it another way . " amazing . a show where parents are the good guys and even have advice worth pondering and even remembering . the script is not only clever but funny . the show is full of musical numbers ( randy newman ) , and this is the weakest part of the film . they are not especially good , and paul terry's voice is wonderful as james , but too weak and harsh for singing . the musical numbers are quite slow and may bore some of the more antsy kids in the audience . this movie may not make headlines among all of the adults , but i predict it will among the kids . i got a new front page . it is rated pg for some potentially scary images of charging rhinos and creepy skeletons . i was in a large audience and none of the kids seemed the least bit scared ; nevertheless , it could frighten kids under 5 . like the much better toy story , this film is highly imaginative and willing to take lots of risks . it should inspire creativity and joy in kids of all ages so i recommend it to everyone and award it * * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
primal fear is an excellent whodunit full of lots of plot twists and surprises . some things you think are clearly so , aren't ; whereas other obvious facts are actually true . the script by ann biderman and steve shagan and based on the novel by william diehl is like the maze at a fun house . some paths seem to work and do whereas others you think you see clearly but don't . other than the great plot , there are two outstanding performances by edward norton and richard gere . all of this notwithstanding , the movie , because of the direction by gregory hoblit , is less than the sum of its parts and overall is not near as good a movie as it could have been or should have been . vail helps out little guys too . vail reads stampler the riot act on how to behave in court telling him , " i don't have to believe you . i don't care if you are innocent . you do not speak . all you do is sit there and look innocent . " he better look innocent and vail better be a brilliant attorney because it looks like an open and shut case if there ever was one . linney's performance as his ex-girlfriend works , but she is not convincing as a prosecutor . certainly not her best work , but well done . vail tells him , " i chose to believe in the basic goodness of people . some basically good people do some very bad things . " guess what it's raining . " what i have told you thus far , just sets up the situation . i will not reveal more . in fact gere demanded that critics seeing the film early sign a contract not to reveal the ending . i will not reveal it other than to say i did not guess it , and , moreover , i thought it was the best part of the movie . so if you hate the movie , don't leave early and miss the best part . for some reason alfre woodard gives a performance totally on autopilot as judge miriam shoat . she acts like she is just there to read her lines , and they should have paided her extra if they wanted her to put in any feeling . gere gives one of his best performances ever . jones , which most people have never seen , but should , do i remember him doing better . watch little things like the confident way to sits in a chair or conducts an interview . even better than gere's , is norton's performance , which i expect to get him an academy award nomination for best supporting actor . he is frighten , naive , respectful , and many other less obvious characteristics all at once . the film has strong editing by david rosenbloom . notice the way he cuts back and forth in a scene to create a seamless feeling of tension . each frame builds on the other like pieces in a jigsaw puzzle . the music by james newton howard is bold and dramatic . with few exceptions the components of a great thriller and courtroom drama are in place , and yet , the director came up short . although i liked what i saw , the picture is frequently not believable enough . the director has his actors too removed . they do not engage the audience and pull them into the drama to the extent they should . in the right hands , this material could have been made into a * * * * film . two outstanding performances and a terrific plot . don't get me wrong ; as done , this is an excellent movie , but i wish it had lived up to its potential . primal fear runs 2 : 10 but doesn't feel long at all . it is rated r for one gory scene with lots of pictures of it to see later , a little sex and brief nudity . i think the film would be fine for teenagers . i recommend the picture and give it * * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
you have all been to movies that were dogs , but which , nevertheless , contain one or two outstanding performances . well , tonight i got to see one of those rare examples of the reverse ! the great director franco zeffirelli , who created the best movie production of shakespeare in my lifetime , romeo and juliet ( 1968 ) , has turned his tremendous creative genius and crafted a wonderful new jane eyre . the substantial flaw that prevents this film from greatness is that zeffirelli made one terrible casting choice in charlotte gainsbourg to play jane eyre . even with problems with the leads , the majesty of the film and wonderful story of the novel ( by charlotte bronte with screenplay by hugh whitemore and franco zeffirelli ) shine through . i went to stay with my aunt who didn't love me . " sound is important in this show . listen in these scenes the way the sound effects editor has removed almost all ambient noises to accentuate the dialogue and the small sounds in the room . she has the long neck of giraffe and enunciates her words without nuance or emotion as if she is angry at the director for requiring her to speak . she creates jane eyre as an unlikable and unsympathetic character . jane sternly replies , " we will work hard , and we will be content . " with blank eyes she replies , " i hardly know . i have little experience of them . " she has radiant , curly , blond hair in sharp contrast to jane dull , straight , and black hair . so much about the peripheral aspects of the film are outstanding . they feel real and not like museum pieces . the movie has pervasive and rich music by claudio cappani and alessio vlad . the music moves seamlessly between the sweeping grandeur and the delicate personal pieces . after a strong beginning and then a middle featuring too much footage of gainsbourg , the film really comes into its own in the last part and begins to engage the viewer much more than the middle part . i really liked the show absent the issue of the two leads . the conundrum is why did zeffirelli cast charlotte gainsbourg as jane eyre , and why didn't he give better directorial guidance to william hurt ? this was a decision as brilliant as his logic was flawed in choosing the lifeless charlotte gainsbourg as jane eyre . i frankly have no idea how he could have made a choice so bad . jane eyre runs a bit long at 1 : 52 and some parts would have better been left on the cutting room table by editor richard marden . the film is correctly rated pg for a single scene of a bloody wound and a couple of mild profanities . there is no violence , nudity , or sex other than a couple of almost platonic kisses . the film would be fine for any kid old enough to be interested in the material which i would guess to be about 9 . i really liked the show , flaws and all , and recommend it to you . to be fair , i should point out that my wife thought the movie was " appalling bad , " and said she was almost ready walk out . usually when we disagree , it is a movie that i hate , and she thinks is pretty good , but here we reversed . finally , i give the film * * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
a family thing is a poignant and beautifully life affirming film . the film deals both with racial tolerance and with the larger meaning of life . it is a little film without any pretensions to be more that it is , and it has three outstanding performances in it . if you are lucky enough to walk into its door at the local multiplex , you will find you have discovered a small cinematic gem . even the traditional southern inherent dislike of potential carpetbaggers is displayed in earl sr . 's complaining to his son about a customer , " i've never seen a damn yankee yet that could operate more than a wheelbarrow . " the show has two stars and a scene stealer , irma p . hall , who i think is a shoe-in for a best supporting actress nomination for her bossy , funny , and upbeat role as aunt t . she tells earl to get salted butter because , " don't know why anybody'd eat unsalted butter . might as well eat vaseline . got about as much flavor . " she is also wise telling them , " nobody ever knows what it's like for somebody else . that's always the problem . " jones's character overflows with humanity . in this ensemble cast , duvall's acting is the great , although i would rank it third here . i was small , but i made up for it by being slow . " earl advises virgil another time that , " being happy ain't nothin' more than havin' something to look forward to . " another piece of advice well worth pondering . the movie shows earl as having definite racial prejudices , but milder than you might guess . he even sinks to using the n word twice which , to be fair , is a lot less that the blacks use it in the film . the dialog is smart and the characters are not drawn as cliches as it would have been easy to do . in a plot where little happens , there are many surprises , scary moments , and many unpredictable twists . the direction by richard pearce has great attention to detail . the movie's ending is set up perfectly , but i would have preferred them to end a couple of minutes sooner and let our imaginations take over after they set it up . the rich music by charles gross provides just the right nostalgic atmosphere . a family thing runs just about right at 1 : 49 . it is correctly rated pg-13 for a small amount of violence and some bad language . i think the film would be fine for kids over say 8 or 9 if they are interested in the subject . i loved the film and see no reason why you wouldn't too . i recommend the picture and give it * * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
the truth about cats & dogs is a light hearted and delightful retelling of the cyrano de bergerac story . it is a fun movie with not a lot of substance , but with plenty of style and wit . although not quite as good steve martin's version called roxanne , it nevertheless has a script by audrey wells that is superb - full of intelligent humor . although it is certainly no laugh riot , there are many jokes , small and large , to keep your attention and fix a smile on your face . not only does the script possess creative humor , it fashions compelling characters for whom the audience really cares . a lightweight show certainly , but a sweet one . actually she is a short but a little chunky brunette with a lovely and attractive smile . and he explains , " he slept on my face so i couldn't hear him . " noelle doesn't understand abby's lack of sexual activity , asking , " you gotta have a boyfriend , don't you ? otherwise it's just you , a cat , and 40 candles on your birthday cake . " abby envies noelle's beauty , telling her , " you burp and guys think its adorable . noelle on the other hand , does not like her life as a model , explaining , " i don't eat anything so i can look good on the outside , but on the inside , there's nothing . " during most of the movie we have almost five foot abby hanging out with almost six foot noelle and creating some hilarious visuals . the only major dirty word in the show is a single use of the f-word by noelle in a great line that almost had me double over in laughter . both of the actresses are good , but this is garofolo's show . she is terrific - strong , witty , vulnerable , and extremely humorous . her funny line at the end of the movie is the best part of the show . thurman does a good job of making noelle into an airhead without resorting to caricature . after brian gives her a book , noelle is shocked saying , " nobody has ever given me a book before that doesn't have pictures in it . " okay guys , what would you have answered ? i do not know exactly what constitutes a " chick flick , " but the large audience on opening night was over three quarters women with more all female couples than mixed sex couples so perhaps this is a chick flick . as a male however , i was just as impressed by the show as was my wife . i like the way , the art of long and intelligent telephone conversation is a central part of the film . the film really teaches you that beauty is more than skin deep . actually , i thought there should have been more of a contrast between abby's looks and noelle's . abby's clothes are suitably clunky , but noelle's frocks are too plain and her make-up too washed out . i would pick abby every time as would i suspect will most intelligent men watching the show . the truth about cats & dogs runs a fast 1 : 37 thanks to good editing and pacing by editor stephen semel and director michael lehmann . it is correctly rated pg-13 . there are only a few bad words , no violence , no nudity , and the sex is limited to the telephone . i suspect the film would be fine for most kids over 10 . i recommend the show to you and give it * * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
boy , that dates me . it is also an excellent 1960 live action disney movie for the entire family , and it is available on video . it has atmosphere , wild animals , pirates , and most of all , an awe inspiring sense of wonderment about creativity in general and about inventions in particular . director ken annakin fashions an imaginative and special movie . this , of course , is a dead giveaway that this is an old movie . today's screenwriters would only include a mass prayer scene in a film if it was either about a cult and the people in question were all about to commit suicide or about some religious fanatics who were about to be involved in some heinous crime . in this screenplay by ian hay and based on the novel by johann david wyss , the prayer is nothing more than honest worship of their god . the show is fun for the whole family , and it teaches a list of good values so long they are hard to count . don't get me wrong ; this is not one of those pedantic and overly earnest stories where nothing happens , but at least it is completely wholesome . this show is filled with action . they too have a cannon , but only enough powder for a single shot . okay , this may not be realistic , and yet , it shows how imaginative solutions are rewarded . when you see the movie , give it some space and think about the approaches taken and not the plausibility of the actual solutions . this is a kids' movie , remember . in a sweet scene there is a great visual of them using a large turtle to pull them and a lot of cargo from the sinking ship to the shore . watching it , it is hard not to have a warm smile on your face . what a delightful movie you will find yourself thinking . didn't you ever dream of a house in the trees ? " doesn't every kid ? this show continues to speak to the most fundamental aspects of childhood . if watching this show does not kindle some extra interest in creativity in you kids , i'll be surprised . although the video has the colors faded some , the lush cinematography ( harry waxman ) and imaginative sets ( john howell ) are still striking . it is rated g and there is nothing to offend anyone . my son jeffrey , age 7 , loved the picture , but warns that kids under 4 might be scared by the wild animals . i recommend this film to you and your whole family , and i give it * * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
my wife rented one of her favorite old movies for us to watch again , the 1984 comedy and fantasy called american dreamer . if you like romantic fairy tales and light hearted comedies , then you may find this is the simple sort of fable perfect for a rainy day . i'm going to leave that decision up to you . " her husband is a cliche , but this is a comedy . the show gets really loony at this point , but williams plays the role with great panache and with her good sense of comedic timing pulls it off brilliantly . i love watching williams . makes you want to go live your dreams . conti , who was good during this period of his acting career , is sweet here . the script is lighted hearted and funny , and the director's pacing is zany . the success of the show , however , should be credited to williams . comedy is a personal taste , and for me this show is a fun romp . american dreamer runs about an hour and a half . it is rated pg for reasons of which i am not quite sure . there is no sex , nudity , violence or bad language . it would be fine for any kid old enough to be interested in a comedy featuring adults . i recommend this little picture to you and give it * * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : may 25 , 1996 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
director jon avnet's up close and personal is a movie , a la broadcast news , about news anchors that want to be rising stars . it starts off as a romantic comedy and evolves into a romantic drama . as a comedy , it is superb with a bright script by joan didion and john gregory dunne . as a romance , it partially works but with stars this beautiful and charismatic , i would rate the romantic angle as a major disappointment . based on the trailers for the movie which makes the drama look contrived and silly , i was surprised at how chillingly effective the dramatic last quarter of the film is . i should point out that although the banter between the two of them is funny , in reality he would be facing a multimillion dollar sexual harassment lawsuit for what he says to her . actually , the relationship kept reminding me of holly hunter and william hurt in broadcast news , but everything in broadcast news was better which is not surprising since i rated broadcast news as the best movie of the entire decade of the 1980s . both of the leads are quite good at their parts and have great fun making the movie . other than it would be fun to do , there seems little purpose in including the scene in the final cut . the movie is pure formula from the beginning to the highly manipulative and telegraphed way in advance ending . this happens while they are smiling ear-to-ear with the credits rolling and the newsroom mikes muted . i found this part of the script more of a diversion and only mildly interesting at that . he looks bewildered and replies , " you already have me around in the morning . how , i have no idea . " in the perfect retort line , she says , " i want you legally to be required to be there . " she does this beautifully with her chin resting on her hands , and this is the only time i found her love for him convincing . although you probably saw it in the trailers , i will not reveal the drama that wraps up the film . suffice it to say that it shows how a remote television control booth can be a hotbed of excitement . redford is at his best in these scenes . the ending of the show contains a tearjerker that probably tested well , but is so easy to predict and so formulaic that i hated it . one footnote . alanna nash's biography of jessica savitch titled " golden girl " is listed as the " inspiration " for the movie . i read that they were originally going to make the book into a movie but after a dozen rewrites , they kept savitch's blond hair , but nothing else from the book . up close and personal runs a little long at 2 : 03 . it is rated pg-13 for a little bad language and a little violence . there is no sex or nudity . actually i would have preferred a little more romantic action from the stars . certainly their love making which consists of little more than a few lame kisses is not convincing . i think the movie as constructed would be fine for any kid over say 8 , but i think they might need to be a little older to be interested . i recommend this funny show to you , and i give it * * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
so , do you like musicals ? do you like opera ? how about a blend ? the classic 1964 film the umbrellas of cherbourg ( les parapluies de cherbourg ) by director jacques demy has been restored and rereleased to the theaters . yes , it will undoubtedly make its way soon to video , but for my money , i think you should see it in all of its radiant colors in a real movie house and not a living room . there is a long history behind this restoration , but from what i can gather , the key facts are that the film was originally shot on an unstable type of film so that the colors faded quickly . even if you saw the movie when it first came out , the colors may have already begun to fade significantly by then . they somehow found an original 3 color separation negative and from that they reconstructed the color as it was always intended to look . for those of you who are specialists in this area of film , please do not fill up my in-box with trivial reasons why this is not quite the right explanation . it is probably close enough for the average movie goer . at any rate , this is a picture that looks spectacular . the colors are bright primary ones with blue and yellow tones dominating . in fact the cinematography by jean rabier has colors so saturated that if it were on tv you might try to turn the color intensity knob down some to " fix " the color . suffice it to say that it is the color that is actually the best part of the show ! the umbrellas of cherbourg does have a plot , good acting , and pleasant singing so it is more than just a splash of color . the film starts with the most impressive and lovely sequence in the movie . each stone looks like it has been individually chosen for its lush and radiant color . soon people come strolling by except you can not see them given the angle of the shot . all you can see is their brightly colored umbrellas . their walking pace intensifies until the film switches to a scene in a garage . none of the plot is important . i love opera , especially wagnerian opera . now , if you read the plot of any opera or ponder the words , you will probably never " waste " your time seeing it . it is the same here . the umbrellas of cherbourg is first and foremost a musical and a display of cinematic color richness and gorgeous sets ( bernard evein ) . if you do not like music and not care about the images of a film , don't waste your time with this movie . some words about the acting . catherine deneuve and nino castelnuovo are handsome actors with infectiously bright spirits . the acting is light , but lovely . i had no idea how beautiful and innocent looking catherine deneuve was . the last film i saw her in was belle de jour ( 1967 ) , and she was made to look harsh in that one . the singing is of the recitative variety where all of the words are lightly sung rather than spoken . if you are used to the more traditional musical like the sound of the music , you may be surprised at how different this technique is . there are no big musical numbers , but rather people talk in a singing voice . it reminded me of the priest singing the eucharist rather than saying it . i liked the singing in the umbrellas of cherbourg , but i must confess , i like the traditional musical with big musical numbers more . it is in french with english subtitles . it is not rated but i would guess it to be pg-13 material for some of the themes presented . it is probably fine for kids over 10 . although i confess that i got a little tired of recitative , i loved the images and the fresh acting , so i am recommending this film to you and awarding it * * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : may 20 , 1996 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
it tells of a time and a people in the south that is rarely dealt with on film . wait a minute , you are probably saying . i have seen a lot of movies about racial discrimination in the south . if you examine most of the films , you will see that they are more about whites and what bad things the whites do to the blacks . you see a lot of blacks as victims , but rarely do you see the blacks coming together for community , for support , and for fun as you do in once upon a time . . . here the whites appear periodically and serve to remind the audience of why the blacks suffered . even the whites are more realistically drawn than normal . you see how uncomfortable some of them are with the system they feel trapped in , but go along with anyway . all of this notwithstanding , the whites play a minor role in the picture , which i found totally refreshing and much more involving . other than " roots , " which was set in a different era , i do not remember a film that taught so much of what it is to be part of the black community . massive discrimination is shown certainly , but the great script adaptation ( paul w . cooper ) keeps the focus on the blacks themselves . this means the films spans the turbulent era of 1946-1962 . repugnant as it was , it did happen ; i remember . i was there . the acting is good all round , but the star of the show has to be al freeman jr . he shows great inner strength , bravery , and intelligence . you may remember him from his forceful performance as elijah muhammad in malcolm x . i liked the other actors and actresses , but none stood out for me the way his performance did . the cinematography by john simmons has the perfect nostalgic sepia look to it . the direction by tim reid has good pacing except in the middle where the show loses energy . some of the incidents chosen for illustration work much better than others so , although i really liked the film , i found it uneven . it is correctly rated pg . there is no sex , no nudity , mild violence and only a few bad words . it would be fine for any kid old enough to be interested in the subject . i liked the show a lot , although i wish it were more even and had a stronger middle . i recommend this excellent show to you and award it * * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : may 20 , 1996 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
nelly and monsieur arnaud ( nelly et m . arnaud ) is a french film that garnered numerous awards there . for me the film is a fascinating character study of nelly and monsieur arnaud , but others will probably characterize the picture as a romance to which i would not argue . this is one of those rare films that appears to have no actors . these characters are so realistically drawn that i did not for a minute think i was observing actors , rather i was eavesdropping on real life . if you must have sex or nudity or if you need dramatic events and fast pacing to enjoy a movie , do not waste your time with nelly and monsieur arnaud as you will be quite disappointed . this is a film that takes its own sweet time and one with a satisfying but slightly surprising ending of the sort you hardly ever see in american films . don't try to guess the ending you will be wrong , and anyway , the fruits to be savored of this film are getting to know the characters . both have excellent bodies and the camera loves them . for good looking characters , their talent has nothing to do with their physical attractiveness . moreover the performances by beart and serrault are compelling and worthy of academy award consideration . most of the show for me remains a beautiful character study of two people . the script by jacques fieschi , claude sautet , and yves ulmann is exquisite . director claude sautet takes a story and slowly wraps his audience into it . a mesmerizing tale . nelly and monsieur arnaud runs 1 : 46 with carefully and almost dreamy editing by jacqueline thiedot . the picture is in french with easy to follow english subtitles . the film is not rated , but would be pg or pg-13 . there is no sex , nudity , or violence . i remember only a single mild cuss word . given the subject matter , my guess is that it would not interest kids under 10 , but i don't see how it could harm anyone . i recommend this delightful talkfest of a film to you and give it * * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : may 31 , 1996 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
tired of overhyped shows with big budget stars ? want to see an old fashion grade b sci-fi flick ? well , i have just what you are looking for , the arrival . within the parameters of this genre , the arrival is a fun and surprisingly good film . it is funny without ever lapsing into self-parody . even the hokey plot somehow evolves into something bordering on plausibility if you just turn your brain off and go with the flow . zane has classic bad glasses , a goatee from the 60s , and a burr haircut to boot . a highly overdrawn character to say the least . as in most b movies , there are a couple of unnecessary romantic subplots . algorithms i trust . beautiful women are beyond me . " along the way , the script mixes in a lot of natural comedy , both in words and in action . zane threatens gordian with , " what do i want to do ? i want to blow a hole in your head and donate your organs to science , but i've got a few questions first . " later gordian warns , " if you can't tend to your own planet , you don't deserve to live here . " the funniest scene in the show is the bathtub one , which will have you in stitches . the arrival runs a little long at 1 : 55 , but it keeps your interest up . it is rated pg-13 . there is no sex or nudity , and only a little violence , mostly of the non-threatening sci-fi variety . probably the scariest scene involves big scorpions hidden in green's bed . the show would be fine for kids over say 8 and perhaps younger . i recommend the picture to you and rate it * * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : may 31 , 1996 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
in an extremely well cast movie we have ed harris playing the major bad guy , u . s . brigadier general francis xavier hummel . all my career i've choked on these lines . in this highly derivative film the writers try for a small twist by having it be a yellow ferrari chasing a hummer . among other over the top special effects we have a cable car blown straight in the air and fly over head . as i was having fun , i kept thinking of all of the great films made with small budgets that have something to say and yet it is these , admittedly enjoyable , escapist entertainment pictures that bring out the crowds . the script by douglas s . cook , john hensleigh , and david weisberg is preposterous and overly dramatic , but funny . typical of the humor is an interchange between an exhausted goodspeed and mason during one of the action scenes . goodspeed asks , " you enjoying this ? " mason smiling says , " well it's certainly better than my average day , reading shakespeare and avoiding gang rape in the washroom . " this irritates goodspeed who tells him , " i like history too . right now i want to find some rockets . " i was formerly a guest here . " beside the excellent acting by the three leads . the editing ( richard francis-bruce ) is too choppy in the beginning , but the cinematography ( john schwartzman ) is striking throughout . the san francisco scenes have lush , bright colors and the alcatraz ones are full of a warm radiance . if anything , they make the prison seem almost too pretty . there are a few cute cinematographic tricks . the most dramatic is the quick cut to an extreme close up of a spinning quarter . the rock runs about 2 hours . it is rated r . there is a little sex , no nudity , a fair amount of bad language , and lots of gory deaths . it would fine for most teenagers . as an action film , this movie delivers the goods , but the best part is the acting . this is a well made piece of escapism that i recommend to you , but warn you not to make the mistake of engaging your brain during the show . go with the flow and you will enjoy it . i give it * * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
besides being an innovative and acclaimed film in its own right , it was the basis for last year's popular and controversial twelve monkeys . la jetee is a fairly unique film in that it is all done with still photos , except for one moving part that goes by in the blink of an eye . the cinematography ( chris marker ) is apocalyptically done with dark , low contrast black and white film stock . the music ( trevor duncan ) is suitably dramatic as fits an end of the world picture . most of the movie happens underground . people can not leave because above ground it is a nuclear wasteland . if you've seen twelve monkeys , you will recognize many of the similarities . he has a deep and dramatic voice almost like that of an announcer on an old newsreel . the direction and the script by chris marker is highly stylized and effective . an unusual picture that is hard to predict , and also a film that grows on you are you are watching it . la jetee runs just 28 minutes , but it is so refreshing to see something take the right amount of time rather than be lengthen to the magical one and half to two hour mark just so it can find a theatrical booking . there is many a movie that has a half hour of good ideas and no more , but is ruined by tripling its length . the show is in french with english subtitles . it is not rated but probably would be pg or pg-13 only for its subject matter . there is no sex , nudity , bad language or violence . if you get a chance to see this little jewel , take advantage of the opportunity . i saw it on a double bill with a dog of a movie call the convent . i give la jetee * * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
it is the most inconsequential of all of the recent jane austin books to reach the big screen ( persuasion and sense and sensibility ) or the little screen ( " pride and prejudice " ) . i am not sure if its lightweight stems from the novel itself or the adaptation , but it is nevertheless a sweet little film and well worth seeing . for the record , my favorite jane austin movie remains persuasion which was also my favorite of all the 118 films i saw last year . finally , i should note that last year's clueless was a modernized and loose adaptation of " emma . " he admonishes her , " better to be without sense than misapply it as you do . " a key aspect of the show is the reverence that is shown to letters . at the core of the show is the early nineteenth century obsession with excessive manners . to which he retorts in a cloying sweet voice , " thank you for thinking i was being so thoughtful . " it is amazing that the whole country did not die from a massive diabetic attach given the level of excessive sweetness in the land . miss woodhouse declares , " i must throw a party otherwise everyone will see clearly how much i despise her . " by the way , you may remember juliet stevenson . a little more variety would have been welcome . the acting is all pleasant enough , but there is no depth to any of it . since other austin novels have had more dramatically drawn characters , my guess is that director douglas mcgrath was trying to keep the show at an ethereal level . he also did the novel adaptation for the screen which i liked better than his directing . a thoroughly enjoyable show , but it could have been better . i did have a problem with toni collete's performance . it was not yet rated when i saw it at the press screening , but my guess is that it will be rated pg . there is no nudity , violence , or bad language . there is not sex unless you want to count the three brief kisses at the end . it is a show that deserves a g rating , but i bet they put in a single bad word somewhere that i missed so they would avoid the less bankable g rating . the show would be fine for any kids old enough to be interested in a show about manners and marrying . my guess is that they would have to be 8 or 9 to be interested , but if you want your 2 year old to see it , there is nothing to offend . i recommend emma to you and give it * * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : june 29 , 1996 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
if you wanted to release pictures into places other than art houses , you had to have the industry's seal on it . in order to get it , kubrick toned down a story of love between an middle-aged man and a young teen so much that the movie is more about murder and comedy than any sexual deviation . in fact the movie as filmed is so tame that it would almost certainly get a pg-13 rating today . the raunchiest scene is one of lolita setting on the lawn by herself in a not particularly revealing bikini . the book was labeled pornography by many at the time , and most movie studios did not care to have anything to do with it . kubrick decided to make it into a movie , but he wanted the seal so he completely reworked the story and got the seal . this was made easier by his throwing away most of the material in the screenplay attempt , more of a tome actually , by the author . the plot of the book is reasonably straightforward , but kubrick's change to start off at the ending makes it feel more complicated than it is . for poor sue lyon this was the only decent film she ever made . both mason and lyon demonstrate the consequences of a lack of morals . lyon does it with a who-cares attitude ; mason with heavy angst . both are highly effective . combine this with kubrick's black comedy rendition of the story as well as his hitchcockian touch of suspense and the movie becomes quite compelling . notice too how kubrick has the adults all drinking so heavily you can see that alcoholism is one source of their problems . sellers acting in the role is one that many critics like , but i found overboard . he goes too much for the heavy comedy for my taste , and i found scenes with him in it grating on my nerves . overall , i wish kubrick had cast someone else . speaking of casting , tuesday weld was considered for the role of lolita , but she reportedly turned it down . i think she would have been perfect for it . the dialog is excellent . his immediate reply is , " the question is does god believe in me ? " if you judge the movie by today's freer standards and ignore most of the actions and contrivances that kubrick had to go through , the film could seem a bit trite . if you approach it with an open mind , the movie can seen to be a deserving member in the body of work of a master director . other than sellers's acting and mason's silly vaudevillian style routine with a folding bed that had no place in the movie , i liked it all . technically the film is interesting as well . the black and white footage by oswald morris is quite dramatic . lolita runs a bit long at 2 : 32 . i think the material would have been more effect with tighter editing . the picture is unrated , but given there is no sex or nudity and the little violence is not very graphic , i think it would actually get a pg-13 today . if you did not know the story , this version of the movie is so ambiguous that one could easily assume that lolita's relationship with humbert is merely platonic . the film should be fine for any teenager . i recommend the picture to you . i look forward to the new lolita by lyne and hope i get invited to the press screening . this 1962 version gets * * * in my book . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
a time to kill is my second favorite grisham novel , the first being the firm , but a time to kill is definitely the most effective of all the adaptations . when i originally read the book , i thought this would make for an excellent move , and director joel schumacher ( cousins , the client , and batman forever ) did exactly that . even the third and fourth string actors are excellent . take for example , all of the actors playing rednecks . before they even speak , you know you are looking at the genuine articles . more on the actors later . there is some much right with this movie , and yet i like grisham's books much better . most of the movies are like the books , but if you have already read them , it takes out a lot of the suspense . one of my favorite genres is courtroom dramas , and a time to kill has a good one . the best part of this movie are the actors . mcgoohan is effect as a judge more interested in his own image than justice . dutton and cooper are quite believable as a couple of honest peace officers . bullock is tough , cute , and smart all at the same time . jackson is wise , humble , and strong . i know i am alone on this judgment , but with the exception of his summation , i think mcconaughey's performance is weak . he shows little emotion and in a role that should be compelling , i did not care about him at all . i did like the way the script by akiva goldsman handled the romantic tension between jake and roark . the script has a good ending and epilogue . if i could have made a single change to the script , i would have lighten it up a bit with a little more natural humor . the movie does strain credibility . a few examples . it never amazes me how often the klan shows up in movies set in the south . i'll give writers a hint . the klan is very rare these days and has been for a long time . also , they do have air-conditioning down there so no need to show all of those sweating scenes . i wish editor william steinkamp had been more liberal with the cutting knife . the film is rated r for subject matter , violence , and some bad language . it is all done tastefully . the show would be fine for any teenager . i recommend the movie to you and give it * * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
big night is a charming little gem . it isn't about much of anything , and yet the emotions are more genuinely expressed that many a more pretension endeavor . this is not a particular important picture , and it will certainly not be much of a money maker , but it is full of heart and some nice pieces of acting . primo is a great chef , but he only wants to make authentic italian food like risotto whether the customers like it or not . primo refuses since he would never put meatballs in spaghetti and would certainly not serve the woman a second starch dish . pascal sees life much simpler . i am anything i need to be at any time . " pascal manages to give primo and secondo a last chance . with the subsequent publicity , people will flock there . almost all of the movie is about the preparations for and serving of the food on the big night . in its lush and colorful food photography and in the reverence it gives to food , it is reminiscent of that great film , like water for chocolate . the cinematography is intimate and the sets , especially of the wood paneled restaurant , are extremely authentic . the people who designed the food for the film deserve extra credit . you may want to go to a great italian restaurant after seeing the picture , but don't . you would be disappointed . this food is heaven - you would only get food for mere mortals . the acting by tucci is excellent , but shalhoub steals the show . think of primo as the gandhi of chefs . i kept expecting a scene with him lighting incense sticks to the food and praying to it . i like holm , but had trouble hearing him speak with an italian accent . driver , from circle of friends and the masterpiece theater tv show " the politician's wife , " is a great actress , but her role here is secondary does not allow her to show off her talents . only rossellini is miscast . her performance seems out of another movie . as those of you not alive during the 50s may not be fully aware , to own a new cadillac then was proof positive of your success in life . the direction and the script is ready to take things slow and natural . many scenes have little dialog and in fact there is a reasonably long epilogue with no words at all just food preparation and consumption . all of this notwithstanding , the films is never boring nor the pace too slow . there are tragedies , mainly small , along the way , and the actors , particularly shalhoub , with few words and great facial expressions manage to move the audience . it is rated r , but is one of the softest r i can ever remember . there is no sex , nudity , or violence . this is a gentle film , but there are just a few bad words and one them happens to be the f word hence the rating . although 99 per cent of the film is in english , the f word appears in the italian part with the english subtitles . except for that one word , the movie would be pg . i think the film would be fine for any kid who is interested in it . i recommend the picture to you and give it * * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
the hunchback of notre dame is a carefully constructed show with stunning visuals . the sets are crafted with a wide range from surrealistic crimson cast skies to a skyscraper looking cathedral that is so real that you will feel like you must be wearing 3d glasses . disney takes a lot of risks in adapting this controversial victor hugo novel to the screen . it manages not to offend anyone , even the church which most movies are happy to ridicule ad nauseam . although i like the film and recommend it , i will admit upfront that i was disappointed . based on the hype , i thought it would be much better than last year's pocahontas , but i found them about equal . although the hunchback of notre dame is dramatic , i found only a few scenes moving . the characters are created with a great flourish , but they are not compelling enough to make us care about them more than superficially . remember how concerned you were about bambi and dumbo ? well , disney just does not demonstrate that ability to touch us here . what i missed most of all was the great disney humor . in the lion king , timon and pumbaa are hilarious . the gargoyles , victor ( voice by charles kimbrough ) , hugo ( voice by jason alexander ) and laverne ( voice by mary wickes ) , had the potential to be much funnier , but the lines screenwriters tab murphy and david stainton come up are lame . if you want to see how good a feature length cartoon can be and especially how one can create hilarious characters that are full of pathos then you need look no further back than last year's toy story . it , of course , did not come from the disney studio at all , but rather from a young upstart . okay , okay , so i have expressed my disappointment , but what did you like about the movie other than the look , you ask ? well , that is not a fair question since i want to tell you more about the visual statement this picture makes . i think disney's animation represents the best in american art today . i am sure disney would have monet under contract if he were still alive . let me try to capture some of what i think makes these visuals so outstanding . first , the use of light has all of the realism of a vermeer . the colors are done in a slightly hazy blend of shades of roses and blues . most impressive of all are the transitions from the impressionistic landscape scenes to the imposing scenes of massive buildings that seem to shoot straight out of the canvas , i mean screen . my favorite part of the drawing is that of esmeralda's eyes . although i had expected more , the story does have many good scenes . esmeralda ( voice by demi moore ) is given to making speeches every now and then like " you speak of justice and yet you are cruel to those most in need of justice . " here we are generally saved from the political correctness dogma that was so pervasive in pocahontas . the movie is filled with songs ( alan menken and stephen schwartz ) , but i found all of them instantly forgettable . the film is rated g . there is no nudity , sex , or bad language , and the violence is mild . there are a few scenes like the fire one or the one with a person falling from a building that may scare kids under 4 as may the overall dark tone of the show . my son jeffrey ( age 7 ) who is hypersensitive to violence thinks it would be fine for kids of all ages . i like it too albeit not as much as jeffrey . i recommend it to you and give it * * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : june 26 , 1996 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
when you hear that a classic animated film is being made into a live action movie , your first reaction is curiosity as to how they will do certain parts . well , fear not this time . in the adventures of pinocchio writer and director steve barron has made a wonderful adaptation of disney's 1940 classic film pinocchio . certainly elements are changed , but all of the basic parts are there and done with class and imagination . if there is a single reason why this version works so well , it has to be the design of the visual effects ( angus bickerton ) for pinocchio . the imaginative script definitively answers many questions about pinocchio . the show is filled with sight gags like this that are quite effective . pepe has a mechanical look to him and yet seems almost real at the same time . he is the cute little philosopher of the picture and is a veritable fountain of advice , including : " insects are people too you know , " and " applause may be good for the moment , but love is everlasting . " although pinocchio is surrounded by other actors , it is totally his show , and he is up to it . only geppetto and pepe have some importance . udo kier playing the evil senor lorenzini gives the only bad performance of picture . his bad guy is neither vile nor threatening , and he cannot even sneer effectively . the movie was filmed in prague , and the director took full advantage of the lushness of the environment . my favorite cameron set here is senor lorenzini's puppet theater which is a marvelous blend of an opera house and a vaudeville theater . how he recreated pleasure island as a sort of outdoor disneyland is also imaginative . the costumes by maurizio millenotti are as elaborate as in a mozart opera . the big wigs of that era are fun . the cinematography by juan ruiz-anchia is a mixture of realism and fantasy . the beautiful blend of oversaturated blues and golds are highly evocative . i do have a minor quibble about the film . the final morphing scene from puppet to boy cuts away rather than show us the morph itself . the adventures of pinocchio runs 1 : 36 . it is correctly rated g . there is no sex , nudity , or violence and nothing to scare or offend . i recommend this magical film to you and your entire family , and i give it * * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
in their second collaboration together , bull durham director ronald shelton and actor kevin costner turn their comedic attention to golf in the new movie tin cup . just as bull durham was much more of a comedy than a sports film , tin cup can be enjoyed by people who hate golf . personally , i am not a sports fan at all , and i find golf to be the second most boring sport in the world - only cricket is worse . all of that having been said , i found tin cup not only funny , but the golf part fascinating . when i was a youngster , we used to have these lovable little animals show up at our outdoor chapel at camp so as soon as i saw the little critter , my heart was already growing warm for tin cup . now , mcavoy is a has been , or more accurately a never was . griswold is a bit of an airhead and not particularly good at anything she does . costner is great , but scenes with both of them in it are hers to command , not by dominance but subtly . the intelligent and literate screen by john norville and ron shelton is full great one liners and even better verbal ripostes . i regret to say that most of the time when the characters trade barbs with each other , the lines are littered with unprintable words so i can not include them here . i make a point of insuring that all of my reviews are g ratable . the foul language is never offensive , is perfectly natural , and fits the characters like a glove . griswold , i think i'm in love with you . from the moment i saw you , i knew i was through with strippers and motorcycle chicks . " unlike most comedies , this is one with a strong message . it can be summed up as " go for it . " as mcavoy more elegantly puts it , " when a defining moment comes along , the moment defines you or you define the moment . " for mcavoy , this bravado is more of a handicap than a blessing . gosh , i can't believe i just said that bit of golfspeak . this show is infectious . there is a part of the message of the show that i did not care for . perhaps , this is all accurate , but i hope not and certainly this is not a message i would want to give to the young adults in the audience . if you enjoy shows full of beautiful people , tin cup will not disappoint . russo is one of the most gorgeous actresses in the movies today . costner is cute as can be , and johnson looks like a greek god albeit one with a little too much grease in his hair . the ending is a complete surprise . the major failing of tin cup is that it is too long . comedies have no business coming in at over two hours . editors kimberly ray and paul seydor left in lots of long and pointless scenes , particularly in the first part of the film . tighter editing would have significantly improved the picture . for example , the stripper character and all of her scenes should be cut , and many scenes need shortening . there is no need for the film to drag so often . tin cup runs too long at 2 : 13 . the film is rated r for brief nudity and lots of quite foul , but to this critic , inoffensive language . there is no violence and the film is upbeat and good natured . it would be fine for any teenager . for subteens , be aware that the f word is used frequently albeit nicely . i recommend this sweet comedy to you and award it * * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
moreau boldly announces that it is a movie not to be ignored . not since seven have i seen such impressive opening credits . that the movie turned out to be as much a religious allegory as an h . g . wells science fiction story , i would have never guessed . i asked several of the other critics after the press screening if they knew if the book had the religious aspects in it , but having not read the book in years , none of them had any idea . personally , i have no problem enjoying stories that are very loose adaptations of books , but still i wondered . i love wells , and this is the first book of his to be made into a movie in twenty years , the last being empire of the ants . you may remember british actor thewlis from his many recent roles including dragonheart , restoration , and black beauty , which is still his best . he is one handsome guy in this getup , but i still do not know why norma moriceau chose this costume for kilmer . even stranger , but somewhat more appropriate is the all white outfit and gloves along with the white pancake makeup that marlon brando wears as dr . moreau . got so bad you couldn't cut a rat without reading him his rights . " he taunts douglas with , " what are you going to say , 'mayday . i'm being held by a pig lady . ' " i vacillated between being absolutely fascinated by this story and wanting the animals to eat brando and kilmer because their acting is so bad . given all of the drugs used and give the look of the cast , another title for the film could have been planet of the apes gets stoned . notice too that the doctor is clearly playing the role of the pope . the script by walon green , michael herr , ron hutchinson , and richard stanley is quite involving . if you like , or at least can ignore , the heavy religious overtones , the script is quite good . it drags some in the middle but it starts and ends strong . director frankenheimer and editor paul rubell know how to craft a high energy presentation that most of the time keeps you on the edge of your seat . moreau would have been much better , but i liked it , flaws and all . the tacked on epilogue message is a lame attempt to justify the religious aspects of the film . they need no justification . you can like them or not , but the epilogue adds nothing and is trite . moreau runs a little over an hour and a half . they did not have a information package available at the screening so i am at a lost for some of the details . the film is rated pg-13 . there is no sex or nudity . the language is mild and the deaths are not very graphic . it would be fine for most kids over say eight . i recommend the picture to you and give * * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . one of the great novelists of children's books is roald dahl . this spring we got to see an animated movie of his james and the giant peach and loved it . we had a friend who leant us the book , and jeffrey ( age 7 ) and i spent many a wonderful night this summer reading it . with that in mind , we looked forward to a new movie , matilda , based on another of dahl's books . matilda is a live action film with danny devito as the producer , director , and one of the stars . between the two recent dahl movies , it would be hard to pick my favorite . finally , i should point out that the best movie ever made from a dahl book has to be 1971's willy wonka and the chocolate factory . i think i have seen that movie at least a half dozen times . i've got to write a review of it someday . i'm not going to pay it . why do you want a book ? " although the book interchange is extremely funny , i reflected on the fact that libraries are reducing their hours at the same time that the average family spends something like three to four hours a day watching television so people's actions are closer to harry's than matilda's . when he gives her orders , he ridicules her with , " i'm smart ; you're dumb . i'm big ; you're little . and there's nothing you can do about it . " she puts super super glue on his hat so it will stick to his head and generally makes his life miserable . dahl is not your sweetness and light author . trunchbull is a classic villain . the costumes by jane ruhm add immensely to their tacky and overbearing images . too often kid's shows go awry by not casting effective villains . here ferris is great as every kid's worst nightmare . she gets some tough lines like , " use the rod and beat the child , that is my motto . " her school's motto is , " if you are having fun , you are not learning . " the star of show is the charming and marvelous child actress mara wilson . you may have seen her strength and her screen presence before in 1993's miracle on 34th street or 1992's mrs . doubtfire . i hope she makes many more films . i liked all of the cast . i do wish devito had not narrated the picture . i found it too jarring having harry out of character when he was the narrator . i loved the show from beginning to end . i found myself clapping sometimes and then laughing out loud . it has an infectiously happy ending . it is rated pg . there are a few situations that might scare kids under 4 or 5 , but the language is pretty mild , and there is no sex , nudity , or violence unless you count the cartoonish violence of kids being thrown out the window . jeffrey loves the show and gives it three thumbs up . i recommend the movie to you and give it * * * . i almost gave it a little more . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
the trigger effect is a hitchcockian thriller about everyone being reduced to their most basic instincts , the bottom of their maslow triangle . through a massive and long lasting power outage people revert to animal behavior . much like testament , this show presents a convincing tale of what could happen . the trigger effect is written and directed by first time director david koepps . here the show is a massive web of tension . soon we cut again to a scene at a movie theater . as in slacker , the scene moves from person a to b and then b to c , etc . each time there is an incident that almost happens and doesn't , but the writer serves notice that you can expect these characters back again . it is a hot and sticky night so this is a terrible inconvenience . imagine the horror of your baby getting sicker and sicker , and yet the drugs she needs are so close you can almost reach over the counter and touch them . it is at this point that the bounds of normal civilized behavior begin to get violated . the script is excellent throughout . a great mixture of tremendous tension followed by a little humor . after one fight , anne tells them , " boys , if you can't play nice , we're aren't going to have any more of these little sleepovers . " at one point matthew asks a cop , " is it bad out there ? " every few minutes , the tension ratchets up some more . this is not a show where suspension of disbelief is necessary . as presented , it is all plausible and is made even more so by some excellent pieces of acting by the cast . people in ordinary circumstances sometimes are forced to do things they would never consider otherwise . small parts of the script really hit home . none of the plastic works . in the power outage this month we were in a toy store trying to buy something with my credit card when it was made inoperable without power . moreover , without power no one could figure out the price nor would i have had exact change anyway . the low and pervasive music by james newton howard serves as a chinese water torture on the audience . many small scenes are excellent . one of my favorites is a big confrontation with guns that gets resolved amicably in a surprising way . the trigger effect runs 2 : 02 . it is rated r . there is no sex or nudity , and generally the language is pretty mild . there is some violence , but nothing gory . i think the film would be fine for most kids ten and up , regardless of the rating . i recommend this thriller to you and award it * * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
last year robert altman brought us his delightful short cuts . similarly in 2 days in the valley , writer and director john herzfeld weaves us a tale of strange and apparently unrelated characters . the context that will bring them all together and provide the hook for the audience is a murder . by midway you have learned the mystery's answer , but by then you are wrapped up in the story and must know how all of the mini-dramas that have burst forth will be resolved . in short , the characters are all compelling , and except for the one completely bad guy , you empathize and care about them all . as for the one pure villain , he is carefully drawn and quite effective . as the movie starts , many parallel stories begin to blossom . this all happens in the first ten minutes or so . the rest of the picture has all of these characters revealing themselves and getting more and more intertwined . the script is great . if you are rich enough , the moral seems to be that even your middle-aged secretary should be flawless . every character has a story to tell . none are one dimensional . the acting is excellent . one of my favorite small scenes is at the cemetery where teddy is about to blow his brains out , but his cute little dog just keeps looking at him with complete love and adoration . the dog's innocence and ignorance is so poignant . this intricate story all comes together nicely . the overall mystery is not predictable nor are a lot of the minor dramas . the parts of the show that are predictable are still compelling . although i thought the picture was weird when it began , i soon got into its rhythms and loved it . i got to know a fascinating group of people , and what more should one ask of a movie . it is rated r . there is sex , nudity , violence and bad language . on an offensive scale , they would all score pretty low , and i think the film would be fine for most teenagers . i recommend this quirky but rewarding little mystery and character study to you , and i give it * * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
much ado about nothing is another shakespearean film from that shakespearean master kenneth branagh . there is no one today who can do shakespeare like branagh , see , for example , his henry v , which was number one on my list the year it was released . in much ado about nothing , he wrote the screen adaptation as well as did the direction . i will assume that most of you know the plot in much ado about nothing from school so i will not repeat in detail here . the movie is uneven , but the range is from good to outstanding . they have so much energy , it makes you feel alive and glad to be on any planet they inhabit . they are the older lovers in the show , but by far and away the most interesting . the younger lovers' acting abilities are okay at best . robert sean leonard's acting is quite unsure in the early scenes , but he warms up a bit to the part as the movie builds steam . on the whole , i found their romance a disappointment . i still remember romeo and juliet ( 1969 ) so i know how great it can be . although denzel washington is in the film , his heart and passion seem to be somewhere else . he is fine in his role , but nothing special . the only serious problem in the casting is michael keaton . as an actor , when he is good , he is very very good ( see for example clean and sober ) , and when he is bad ( don't see one good cop ) , he is awful . i have not seen such overacting in a long time as his acting in much ado about nothing . the technical aspects of the movie are outstanding . the cinematography by roger lanser and the sets by tim harvey are lush and gorgeous . if you feel in the mood for a movie not costing something approaching the national debt to produce , if you actually enjoy humans in your movies ( no , i am not dinophobic , but there is more to life than jurassic park ) , if you especially like humans who can talk and have something to say at the same time , if you like screens smaller than candlestick park , then go to your local art house and see much ado about nothing . much ado about nothing runs 1 : 51 . it is correctly rated pg-13 and would be fine for any kid old enough to appreciate the bard . i recommend the show to you and give it * * * . i look forward with great anticipation to branagh's next shakespeare piece , and the one after that , and the one that . . . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : june 25 , 1993 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
this weekend i saw jurassic park . i would give the dinos a * * * * rating as i never thought they were models or simulations and i will never forgot the awe inspiring sounds they made . as for the actors , director and especially the script , i would give them a * rating . overall i give the movie a * * * rating and wish the dinosaurs would have eaten all of the people except for say a narrator in the first 5 minutes of the show . on the other hand , if they had created people i cared about , well then i would have preferred them to live and interacted with the dinos . since i did not care if the people lived or died , the movie never scared me unlike aliens ( * * * * ) which scared the daylights out of me . now , what really bothered me in jurassic park were the stereotypes . doesn't sound like any of my friends . making a profit we are reminded means that you must put your workers in physical jeopardy , underpay them , and most of all rape the ecohsystem . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
so are you searching for a good movie for the whole family ? does your household have preteens in it who have outgrown the little kid movies , but still would like to see shows that are exciting and that can inspire them ? do you like shows that not just for preteens , but the whole family can enjoy ? let me take a little different approach in this review . think of it as a questionnaire . do you like movies where o the characters are intelligent o the script is bright o people don't have to talk in 4 letter words to make points o kids to be heroes do not have to be in sports o it is okay to show kids from non-broken homes o it is okay to show kids who are healthy , not reformed o it does not have to have stupid sub-plots o parents can be wholesome yet still be interesting o you can show an adult at their place of work and show them happy o you can have classic showdown scenes yet have real surprises o you can have no violence and not be boring if you were able to answer in the affirmative to most of these questions , i recommend searching for bobby fischer and give it * * * . even if you know nothing about the game of chess , i still recommend it to you . knowing chess will improve your enjoyment only slightly of the film and is not necessary . a sweet and heartwarming show . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : august 20 , 1993 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
if you thought how wonderful it would be living in new zealand a hundred years ago , this movie will disabuse you of that notion . this is a dark and depressing show about the evils of life . depressing shows can be quite rewarding as this film proves . holly hunter without her southern or any accent ( she does not talk ) nevertheless gives an award winning performance . her best for me will always be broadcast news . he was mean yet somehow you managed to feel sorry for him at times because he just did not seem to have the brains to know better . harvey keitel was excellent as the , well , as the boy friend i guess you might say . i wish they had ended the show in a slightly different way a few minutes before it actually ended . if you see the show , you will know where i mean . do go see it , but don't expect sweetness and light . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
this is an unrated show , but could be nc-17 . i have trouble writing g rated reviews of nc-17 class movies . let me say the film involves solo sex , incest , death of parents , stale bodies and other activities . by now you probably get the basic idea . this is a film that is better seen that described . it features some great acting . the script is excellent and full of surprises . if you can enjoy quirky shows , this may just be your cup of tea . personally , i liked it a lot and gave it * * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : march 7 , 1994 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
the big squeeze is a whimsical fable . as soon as the opening credits of unaligned type appears with their multicolor shades of pastel , the audience is served notice that a light hearted comedy is approaching . as the quote above from the press kit shows , writer and director marcus deleon wants to weave a web where you are never quite sure who is on the up and up , and who isn't . if you are tired of big message films and epics and want to kick back and just be entertained with a simple little film , the big squeeze is just the flick for you . what with all the frustrations and temptations . " the show has an ensemble cast . the director does let the show drag some , but the cast always gives it their all . especially endearing are boyle and nucci playing two likable and compelling characters . i have always been a fan of lara flynn boyle , but this has to be her best picture to date . she plays the role in a low key fashion , and yet manages to own any scene she is in . i especially like the way jacques haitkin filmed her . he shows that her skin is not your typical glamour model smooth , and it is full of freckles , and yet , she looks alluring and seductive without doing much more than just standing . the music by mark mothersbaugh is a whimsical blend of xylophones and flutes . the script is a delight from beginning to end . speaking of the ending , it will have you guessing until the last . the are several endings possible , but in this life affirming little show , it doesn't really matter which one the writer chooses . other than i wish the director had not let the show bog down as often as he did , and i wish he had kept the energy a bit higher , i have no other criticisms . a sweet little comedy . the big squeeze runs about an hour and a half , but the press kit did not give the exact time . it is rated r . there are two fairly tame fistfights , a little sex , fairly mild language , but no nudity . the film would be fine for any teenager . i love the show and recommend to you . it gets * * * in my book . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
do you like reading short stories ? are you willing to stay with a picture where not much happens but where you get to eavesdrop on a host of endearing characters ? well , if you do , i have just the film for you , rendezvous in paris ( les rendez-vous de paris ) . films today either sex or don't . there is little time for romance . actually , that is over with quickly too so they can cut to the action scenes and the violence which is understood to be what it takes to sell tickets these days . remember nothing sells popcorn like a film full of fistfights and car chases . there is a subtler form of romance known as flirting and few films waste time with that . rendezvous in paris has such non-stop flirting that it could have been called flirting except that title was taken . when you leave you may yourself winking at the person at the snack bar unless you are careful . this film puts you in love with love . the format for the film is that there are three short stories . introducing each are some hokey street singers and images that look like they are lifted straight out of a 50s film . the picture itself was consciously filmed with a hazy look by cinematographer diane baratier . the director wanted this nostalgic look , but it may send you to the concession stand to complain until you know it is on purpose . this story ends in the biggest twist , but all three stories have somewhat of a surprising ending . we were in paris this summer , and i found the second story reminded me of our trip . we saw more intense necking on the streets in a week than i've seen in several years in cities in america . rendezvous in paris is a wonderful talkfest of a film . if there is any recent movie that even remotely resembles it , it would probably be that wonderful film before sunrise from last year . some may criticize rendezvous in paris as being inconsequential , but for me it is a real treat that grows on you as you see it and is one of those few films whose images are indelibly marked in your memory . finally , the actors are mainly a bunch of unknowns , but all deliver strong performances . their screen presence is incredible , and the camera is love with them . it is in french ( appropriately called the language of love ) , but with sharp and easy to read english subtitles . it is rated pg , and there is nothing to offend anyone of any age . there is no sex , nudity , violence , or bad language . except that three year olds will have little interest in romance , the film could easily have been rated g . i recommend the show to anyone of any age interested in love and flirting , and i award it * * * . now , don't forget to be careful when you pass the person at the snack bar if your spouse is with you . in the real world , flirting can get you in a lot of trouble . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
david mamet is one of the most brilliant of today's playwrights and screenwriters . the last two films are incredible tours de force and put him at the top of my list for writers worth looking for . his scripts are highly intelligent with every line worth pondering , and his characters engage each other with constant verbal ripostes . . . . most of mamet's plays that are made into movies do not feel like plays , but american buffalo has all of the claustrophobia of a play . outraged , he argues with donny , " all i'm saying is don't confuse business with pleasure . " he goes on to say that , " loyalty is fine , but this is business . " most of the show has the two would be rich con men arguing about how the crime will be pulled off . most of their logic is full of wild and changing suppositions , but they squabble with great ferocity . all of the people give fine performances . here is where i begin to have problems with the film and where i find it one of my least favorite , albeit still excellent , works of mamet's . the teach character as written by mamet and played by hoffman is certainly intense , but not especially complex . in fact , the main failing of the film is that too often it becomes tedious and little more than a mechanism for delivering some admittedly fine lines . whereas all of mamet's other work are highly involving , this one is too distant and self-indulgent . i do think it is an excellent movie , but for someone who has delivered so much better , i left the screening feeling disappointed . i had expected more . it is rated r for frequent bad language . the language was natural for the characters and never used to shock so i had no problem with it . the film should be fine for any teenager . flaws and all , the film is excellent , and i recommend it and give it * * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
grace of my heart is a happy and delightful show that celebrates the creative process of song writing . grace of my heart is her fictional autobiography . i read that most of the people in the film are loosely based on real stars , but that is a distraction that i ignored while watching the film . better to concentrate on the sweet little story at hand . it's you that doesn't fit . " in her first starring role , normally supporting actress , douglas is perfectly cast and performs flawlessly . she is somewhat attractive , but her eyes and mouth seem a size too large for her face giving her a natural look unlike the typical fashion model appearance so popular in actresses today . she gives a compelling and always believable performance . the thing is we already have someone just like you . " if that is not enough , he goes on , " i don't want to burst your bubble , but not only do we have someone like you . we are trying to get rid of the someone like you . " bad gender timing . turturro demonstrates for the first time , at least to me , his tremendous comedic abilities . it is worth the price of admission just to see the chemistry between them and their artistry . given douglas's charisma , the audience feels like complaining , take a number since they are enchanted with her too . dillon gives a space out performance of a spaced out guy , but it is so ethereal that his acting left me cold . if writer and director allison anders had just stopped with the nyc part , she would have had made a brilliant picture . once in surf city denise gets down on herself declaring " maybe i put too much of myself into my songs . " eat your hamburger . this is an extremely rewarding film , flawed only by the plodding last part on the west coast . there are twenty-eight songs in it , and most of them were made just for the film . all of the songs are full of high energy and reminiscent of the period . i left feeling i just had my batteries recharged . my favorite part of the film , other than the mesmerizing performances by douglas and turturro , is the insights the film provides into the hard work required to produce a hit single . i learned a lot by watching this fascinating bit of collaboration . the script is a gem . she asks him , " what exactly did you like about my record ? this is supposed to be upbeat , not uptight . the technical aspects of the production are also meritorious . the cinematography by jan yves escoffier reminded me almost of the colorful work by jean rabier in the umbrellas of cherbourg . finally , my favorite small touch in the picture is the use of the theremin musical instrument by the rip tides . as documented in the engrossing film theremin : an electronic odyssey , this little instrument was used in everything from science fiction movies to beach boy music . check out my review of the movie in the internet movie data base and then rent the video if you can find it . grace of my heart runs 1 : 55 . it is rated r for some bad language and a couple of scenes of dope smoking . there is no violence , no sex and a single very brief nude scene at a commune . the show would be fine for most teenagers with only the brief drug usage scenes to be a possible concern . this is an easy show to watch and to enjoy , and hence one definitely worth a recommendation . the languid and atypically morose last part of the show detracted from my rating , but it still gets * * * from me . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
fantasies that the whole family can enjoy are few and far between . studios executives generally look for kids' shows with minimum intelligence and maximum slapstick humor . the result is that these films are either major silly in an attempt to play down to the little tykes or they are full of gross bathroom humor thinking that is the only type that will keep the attention of the teens and subteens . it is a delight for all ages , and miracle of miracles , it does this without any crude jokes or anything offensive . he rationalizes that new zealand is far away , to which she grumbles , " that's a lame excuse . " so far the show is nothing more than your formulaic despondent adolescent flick . one of the attractions of the show for parents is it provides good role models for their children . from his recent 2 days in the valley to his best performance ever in gettysburg , he adds something special to the roles he plays . here his relentless approach is both exhausting and inspiring to watch . her every motion is graceful , and when she is one with the geese , it becomes hard not to cry for reasons having to do with nothing more than the love of life that she radiates . i gave you silly putty once for christmas . you ate it . " besides the fantasy aspect there are two compelling reasons to see the show . you will soon lose count of the many precious scenes in the picture , but let me cover a few lovely ones that brought me joy and mirth . the scenes of the geese waddling behind amy had the entire audience smiling and was mentioned as a favorite by the kids that accompanied us to the picture . the most breathtaking scene and the one most likely to engender tears was the sheer majesty of the scene where amy's minions follow her on her first big flight . the cinematography by caleb deschanel ( the natural , the right stuff , and the black stallion ) is the key underpinning to the film's success . in fly away home he uses a lot of shadow work to accentuate the warm browns and earth tones of his color palette . his aerial shots are certainly the most spectacular . that crazy little plane with the geese flying behind filmed against the clouds and the sunset is a marvelous sight to behold . taken as a fantasy , the film makes perfect sense . don't ruin it for yourself by over analyzing it . this was my son's favorite line . better not to promise anything . " director carroll ballard ( the black stallion and never cry wolf ) has an imaginative and deft touch . why ballard has only made five films in seventeen years is a mystery to me . i do have two quibbles with the movie . first , why do we have the scene where the uncle gives amy a nose ring which she then wears for the rest of the picture . if this was a film about generation xers , i would understand , but this little fourteen year old is the epitome of sweetness and innocence . the nose ring is just out of character . second , why did we need the cliched subplot where the environmentalists are shown confronting evil capitalists , or is that an oxymoron in movies , who are raping nature . kids' movies uniformly show environment issues as totally one sided . that these kids live in houses made of lumber , drive cars powered by gasoline , and generally do lots of things where environmental tradeoffs are made every day is never discussed . just mention the word environment and you have trumped any possible argument . it is rated pg for three mild cuss words and a very subtlety handled car crash . there is no sex , nudity , or violence . the film would be fine for kids of absolutely any age , but should delight adults as well . i loved the show and think you will too so i recommend it and give it * * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
critics disagree . when i see a movie at the press screening , i have no idea how other critics will react other than listening to their laughter or noticing their body language . usually i can guess the reaction of the reviewers at large . for some shows i can sense that i will agree with the majority and others that i will not , but with the ghost and the darkness , which i saw after it opened to the public , i was quite pleasantly surprised . other than gene siskel , the other critics absolutely detested the film . not only did i like it , i frankly can not understand why they didn't too . oh well , as i said , critics disagree . even the most impossible parts of the story really happened . " beaumont warns him that , " i am a monster . my only pleasure is tormenting those who work for me . " moreau , redeems himself here . his performance , and the quite different but equally effective one by michael douglas as legendary big game hunter charles remington , are compelling and complex . beaumont makes a visit and is not pleased . he informs john that , " i don't care about the thirty dead . i care about my knighthood . " i am the devil . " i found it refreshing that director stephen hopkins and writer william goldman could fashion a terrifying tale out of nothing more than a couple of lions . in a year of fifteen mile wide flying saucers , i like seeing filmmakers going back to first principles and using basic ingredients to craft real tension . besides the two leads , whom i thoroughly enjoyed watching , one serious ( kilmer ) and the other funny ( douglas ) , the rest of the cast was quite good , and goldman gave each character his own little story . the atmospheric images are a contrast of ones of fog , mist , and haze followed by ones of the great and bright african sun . atmosphere is easy , terror is harder . if you like movie music , it might be worth buying the cd . it has lots of french horns and kettle drums to get your adrenaline pumping . it is full of low rumbling rhythms best heard in a theater with a high quality sound system . there is gore in the film , but it is never gratuitous . when a lion attacks a human , it is not a pretty sight , but i thought hopkins stuck correctly to the thriller aspects and away from the pure shock value . as the ending credits were rolling i found myself with my mouth open thinking " wow . " the film is rated r for the animal violence . there is no sex or nudity and the language is pretty mild . the film would be fine for any teenager and those younger who can handle the fear . i had a great time at the ghost and the darkness , and i suspect you will too so i recommend it and award it * * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : october 15 , 1996 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
caught is a powerful character study and devastating love triangle . although the title of the picture is an obvious giveaway for the ending , it doesn't matter . this is no mystery ; the revelations are of the spirit and not of some artificial turn of an overly clever suspense plot . but he puts it more succinctly , " fish been very , very good to me . " get up at 5 : 00am , i'll take you to fulton's fish market . " yes , this is a show that strains credulity every now and then , but the emotions are real and the scenes so natural you will have no problem suspending disbelief . the unglamorous cinematography by michael f . barrow is as carefully constructed and important as the antonymic lush work of john toll in legends of the fall . these people look more like inhabitants of a documentary than a fictional romance . barrow loves close-ups and editor norman buckley combines them into dizzyingly fast sequences that keeps the pacing and the energy high . schub has this evil look that makes his every statement seem to have deep hidden portent . all of the performances are quite good , but maria conchita alonso owns every scene she is in . the ending is much more impressive and complicated that the straightforward title suggestions . it is the best part of the film , and i liked it all except the way the conflict between nick and danny is resolved . masterfully directed by robert m . young ( dominick and eugene and triumph of the spirit ) and with a well developed screenplay by edward pomerantz ( based on his book " into it " ) , caught is an entrancing film with sympathetic characters that keeps you glued to the screen . the script saves the best for last without ever cheating the audience along the way . sometimes devastating , periodically erotic , always smartly written and acted , and frequently tender , caught is a cornucopia of emotions . if you go , it will catch you in its spell . it is rated r for one dope smoking scene , lots of sex of many varieties , nudity , some violence , and bad language . it would be okay for mature teenagers only . for adults , i recommend it and give it * * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
always imaginative director apted has given us a wide varied of wonderful films . his documentary series 21up , 28up , and 35up are among my all time favorite films and a must see for any cinema buff . as he showed in gorky park and does again here in extreme measures , he is also a master at the thriller genre . thrillers have good guys and bad . as hitchcock taught us , the best thrillers focus on the innocent man in the center . finally , through shear perseverance he somehow manages to thwart the villain . the patient's heart and all of his bodily functions race wildly and then calm like passing through the eye of a hurricane . this scene happens early in the show and serves not only to set up the plot , but also to get the audience's adrenaline pumping wildly in sync with the dying man . apted's craftsmanship shines . confused at what is going on and what , if any role , the coroner has in it , dr . luthan tells him , " you're quite a creepy person . " grant gives a sympathetic and convincing performance as the everyday doctor who gets sucked into the vortex of some gruesome terror and has no idea what is going . it is created in such a way that the audience is in total empathy with the lead character . i can't tell you any more of the show other than to say that every time you think you have it all figured out , you haven't . although the medical conspiracy and most of the rest of the show is made believable , there is a homeless syndicate that isn't . finally , there is an unnecessary and confusing epilogue . why it is there , i have no idea other than perhaps it is a failed attempt to address some criticisms made during the test screenings . it is rated r for violence , emergency room gore , some bad language , and brief nudity . there is no sex . teenagers will probably like the show , but it would be inappropriate for younger kids . i recommend the picture to you and give it * * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
bound is a classic film noir . it is made even more so with at once both innovative and nostalgic cinematography by bill pope . although it is a color film , his color palette consists of exactly five colors - black , white , gray , flesh tones , and red for blood . actually , there is a smattering of a sixth color , green , but that is it . if you have to see blues , purples , or yellows in your pictures , don't bother to see this film ; they aren't there . if you want to know more about the process behind this , last sunday's ( october 6 , 1996 ) new york times's arts and leisure section had a long and fascinating article about the cinematic process behind this film . the answer , so that i do not get a thousand letters asking me , is " what is white to you . " it seems there are innumerable gradations of white , and the colors of the sets revolve that fundamental choice . the wachowskis both the directed the film and wrote the script . although some of the strong imagery and shock value is the same , the wachowski are just not in the same league as the coens . the only other movie credit the wachowskis have is that they wrote the script for the formulaic action thriller assassins for sylvester stallone . all of this notwithstanding , bound is a good show with more twists and turns that you can count . if you can guess them all , go to the head of the class , i certainly couldn't , and for that reason i am going to tell you very little about the story itself . to make their film noir fresh and different , the wachowskis have the leads be a pair of lesbian lovers . she is tough as nails , has lots of tattoos , and is usually very greasy from her work unclogging drains . the other , violet ( jennifer tilly ) , looks sweet and harmless , but isn't . the plot is an elaborate double cross labyrinth . editor zach staenberg cuts the scenes fast enough to maintain the high energy , but not so quick as to confuse the audience with the time frames . the strong and dramatic music by don davis has the horns blasting to keep up the tension . subtle it is not . the sound effects editing is equally heavy . the acting is all good . although he only got third billing , i was particularly fond of joe pantoliano's realistic bumbling . it is rated r for sex , nudity , violence , gore , and bad language . this is a film for adults and quite mature teenagers not easily sickened when someone's fingers are being cut off . i had a great time watching the plot's twists and turns so i recommend this movie although granted it is not for everyone , and i award it * * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : october 8 , 1996 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
i fell in love with his writings so much that i read every book he ever wrote . only one other serious author , sinclair lewis , would have that same effect on me and cause me to seek out even his obscure early novels . i've also read all of the books of authors like grisham , clancy , etc . , but those are just fun diversions . since i had never seen emilio fernandez's the pearl ( 1945 ) and since " the pearl " was not among my favorite of steinbeck's novels , i looked forward to seeing my reaction to it . there are two quite unusual aspects in the development of the book and the movie . fernandez said that he should make that into a book with a movie in mind , which is just what steinbeck did . although common now , it was rarely done then . steinbeck's motivation was , " i want to keep the film out of the hands of hollywood . " don't get confused . from the beginning , award winning cinematographer gabriel figueroa's black and white photography dominates the picture right along with the heavy music by antonio diaz conde . sometimes it seems the story is only a vehicle for these two talented individuals to show off their wares . the cinematography is highly imaginative . although much lower budget , it reminded me of the innovative work done for citizen kane . figueroa films his characters from below , all the better to enhance their stature into almost mythical figures . conde's music has all the subtlety of a hurricane , but is quite impressive and moving nevertheless . in a beautiful scene , quino dives deep underwater without aid of oxygen . when he stands up in the boat holding it , he looks up to heaven , but then gives a devilish laugh . like an opera or like filmmaker satyajit ray's classic " apu trilogy , " the acting and the gestures are exaggerated , but none the less powerful . the pearl is not realist - it either works as a fable or it doesn't . thankfully , it is a touching fable and is quite successful . so what would be your dream if you discovered great riches ? although some may subconsciously put them down quino's sentiments as trite , it reminded me of my childhood . we were not very well off , and my father , who dropped out of school in the tenth grade , had a single ambition for me - that i would go to college . that i went on to berkeley and got my ph . d . was not as important to him as that enabling first degree . the day i got my b . a . was one of the happiest days of his entire life . the operatic style ending is dramatic and effective . the pearl is a touching movie that speaks to everyone and is well worth renting . it is not rated , but would be g or pg . there is no sex , nudity , or bad language . the film would be fine for any kid old enough to be interested in it . i recommend this small cinematic gem to you and give it * * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : october 26 , 1996 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
quick , name some good films about the american revolution ? hmm , couldn't name any ? for those of you who incorrectly listed revolution ( 1985 ) , remember i said " good " films . granted the internet movie data base does also list a few obscure , older ones , but basically there aren't any . michael collins is an excellent , but frustrating film . the acting is brilliant as is the direction . the film's downfall lies in the script , also by neil jordan . tactically the script works , but not strategically . certainly irish historians will have no problems , but i posit that average movie goers will feel like they turned on the tv and found themselves starting off in the middle of a great mini-series with only a few sound bites from the narrator to give them the necessary context and motivation . there is fat in the show that could have been trimmed in favor of more historical perspective in the beginning . similarly , most of michael collins leads up to the signing of the treaty with england , but it does not end cleanly there . the problem is that the show is already about two hours long at that point so he rushes through a sketchy outline version of the end that leaves you exhausted and confused . quick incident after incident are thrown at the audience in a montage that feels like we are see nothing more than the trailers for michael collins part ii . i have to get one final problem out of the way so i can concentrate on the positive aspects of what is at its core an excellent movie . without exception , the film would be stronger if every scene roberts was in , would have been left on the cutting room floor . the show's great momentum grinds to a halt every time she appears . her part is the fat i alluded to earlier . maybe they could have left her name on the marquee and just put her picture on collins's desk , but not forced her to deliver a bunch of meaningless lines , including my favorite bit of drivel , " so which one of you gunslingers is going to ask me to dance . " now onto the brilliance of the rest of the picture . later when collins addresses a crowd , the images are so strong that you want to leap out of your seat and join the cause . the cinematography is academy award nomination material as is the acting by neeson and by stephen rea as ned broy , who was collins's personal spy in the british intelligence service in dublin . neeson's portrayal of collins as a terrorist's terrorist is unflinching . his only concern is not to waste precious bullets . nevertheless , neeson is so attractive and compelling , that regardless of whose side you were on when entering the theater , you are likely to side with collins during the show . the show argues effectively that de valera had little integrity and that he was the machiavellian figure of the irish revolution . if someone else could be blamed , then his hands would be clean . rickman gives a wonderfully slimy performance . i want it so much i'd die for it . " he loathes the british , telling harry , " i hate them for making hate necessary , and i'll do what i can to end it . " typical of the g-men lines while torturing is the one where they say , " the problem with the irish is that they'll sing at the drop of a hat , but ask them to talk and they won't . " after that dubious bit of historical accuracy , i begin to question all of my previous assumptions about the film . maybe the incident did happen in exactly that way , but i find it a bit hard to believe . michael collins runs 2 : 13 , which is too short for its attempted scope , but the film would have been better if it were more tightly focused in which case it should have been shorter . the movie has an r rating . there is bloody but not sensationalized violence , lots of uses of the f word , but no sex or nudity . the show should be fine for teenagers . although the picture could and should have been much better , i liked michael collins and recommend it to you . although it is uneven , i average out its rating to * * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
caught is a powerful character study and devastating love triangle . although the title of the picture is an obvious giveaway for the ending , it doesn't matter . this is no mystery ; the revelations are of the spirit and not of some artificial turn of an overly clever suspense plot . but he puts it more succinctly , " fish been very , very good to me . " get up at 5 : 00am , i'll take you to fulton's fish market . " yes , this is a show that strains credulity every now and then , but the emotions are real and the scenes so natural you will have no problem suspending disbelief . the unglamorous cinematography by michael f . barrow is as carefully constructed and important as the antonymic lush work of john toll in legends of the fall . these people look more like inhabitants of a documentary than a fictional romance . barrow loves close-ups and editor norman buckley combines them into dizzyingly fast sequences that keeps the pacing and the energy high . schub has this evil look that makes his every statement seem to have deep hidden portent . all of the performances are quite good , but maria conchita alonso owns every scene she is in . the ending is much more impressive and complicated that the straightforward title suggestions . it is the best part of the film , and i liked it all except the way the conflict between nick and danny is resolved . masterfully directed by robert m . young ( dominick and eugene and triumph of the spirit ) and with a well developed screenplay by edward pomerantz ( based on his book " into it " ) , caught is an entrancing film with sympathetic characters that keeps you glued to the screen . the script saves the best for last without ever cheating the audience along the way . sometimes devastating , periodically erotic , always smartly written and acted , and frequently tender , caught is a cornucopia of emotions . if you go , it will catch you in its spell . it is rated r for one dope smoking scene , lots of sex of many varieties , nudity , some violence , and bad language . it would be okay for mature teenagers only . for adults , i recommend it and give it * * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
romeo and juliet as a movie to laugh at - what a concept ! after his brilliant and highly innovative strictly ballroom , director baz luhrmann's second movie is his cinematic treatment of shakespeare's romeo and juliet . since franco zeffirelli's 1968 version is one of my favorite movies of all time , i was curious how luhrmann's version would turn out . certainly it has been one of the most hyped films of the year . i predict audience reaction will neatly dichotomize into those who feel the show is absolute garbage , notice the first song is aptly song by a group called garbage , or great campy fun . let me confess that i am firmly in the later group . most of the cast view their parts as total romps . this makes the film into almost a movie within a movie . the rest of the cast is not quite this off the wall , but close . to have actors trying to be serious ensconced within a broad farce makes for an interesting contrast . this is a fun film whose high energy level is off the charts . with most films you start by discussing the acting , but not with this one . it is the direction , the sets ( catherine martin ) , the editing ( jill bilcock ) , the costumes ( kym barrett ) and most of all , the cinematography ( donald mcalpine ) that is the essence of the production . well , mcalpine does this with great and effective gusto . couple this with light speed editing , and you've got a film that veritably pulsates with energy . the sets are extremely colorful and outlandish as are the costumes . most of the montagues wear hawaiian shirts and have multicolored hair . the capulets stick to wearing all black and have greasy slicked back hairdos . religious imagery crops up everywhere . there is even a dream sequence where mercutio dances in drag at a bacchanal under an enormous picture of the virgin mary . many will view all of this as sacrilegious , but i took it as good satire . if you think you will be offended , then consider this review as fair warning to avoid this picture . it switches from video snow to a news anchor ( edwina moore who played the wmia co-anchor in up close and personal ) who delivers the prologue , " in fair verona , where we lay our scene , two households both alike in dignity " , and the epilogue , " never was a tale of more woe than this of juliet and her romeo . " the editing is even less subtle than the photography . during the prologue , we keep switching to the words in fair verona on a solid background to make sure we are not missing the points . there isn't a subtle moment in the movie . the music ( nellee hooper ) and the sound of the film are dramatic and impressive . the sounds , especially of the ever prevalent guns and hot cars , are loud and jolting . the acting by most of the cast is full of exaggerated gestures , but next to mercutio , the most outlandish is that diane venora as gloria capulet , paul sorvino as fulgencio capulet and miriam margolyes as the nurse . since it is just about to open , this is usually a bad sign and means the film is in trouble . i am not sure what the problem was . at any rate , baz luhrmann's romeo and juliet should be controversial and popular , the former to make even more of the latter . most shakespeare , even ian mckellen's vision of richard iii as a world war ii british fascist , is done seriously . here , the critics in the theater were laughing with the picture . baz luhrmann has turned a romantic tragedy into a farce and an extremely handsome looking farce at that . the downfall of the show has to be the acting . visuals like dave paris ( paul stephen rudd ) being on the cover of time as the most eligible bachelor in the land are funny , but most of the actors do little more than read their lines . the script by baz luhrmann and craig pearce is a very literal adaptation of shakespeare's text , but the director uses the images of the story and not the words to convey his message which is a shame . the acting by claire danes and leonardo dicaprio is good , but nothing special . they've all done better work . the rest of the cast is okay . the excitement of the film can be attributed to baz luhrmann and his previously mentioned crew . a director who places much of the balcony scene in and under the water of rich capulet's swimming pool is one not afraid to take risk . a wild picture by a bold director . romeo and juliet runs about 2 hours and my guess is that the film is rated r . they were lucky to have a screening much less get out a press kit . the film contains one drug use scene , bloody violence , but no bad language , sex or nudity . given that the much tamer zeffirelli film had brief and effective male and female nudity , i was surprised that this outre version didn't . the show should be fine for teenagers , who will probably love it . i found it great fun and give it a thumbs up . it is destined for cult classic status . although i rate it * * * , if you see it and hate it , don't say i didn't warn you that it was extremely bizarre and certainly not for everyone . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
looking for richard is al pacino's paean to shakespeare and to acting . the picture is totally his baby . he conceived it , and it is the first film he ever directed . the film , for reasons described below , is a frustrating , but ultimately rewarding cinematic experience . let me deal first with the single and almost fatal problem with the film and then i can get to the good part . never i have i seen bad editing detract from a film more than it does here . the movie is about the acting of the play richard iii . this is a technique that holds much promise , but the editing almost sinks it . this makes for an extremely choppy and dizzying experience . perhaps this sound bite technique works on mtv , but not with discussions of shakespeare . after being convinced i was seeing a film that going to find me with my thumb down , the second part is edited at a pace that allows us to hear the play , the rehearsals , and listen to the opinions so that in the end the picture redeems itself and does end up transferring to the audience an appreciation of the acting profession in general and shakespeare in particular . as proof of its success , i left the theater wanting to see the play live again soon and to see ian mckellen's marvelous movie richard iii ( 1995 ) once more . let me give you a taste of looking for richard . pacino talks about the problems of american actors and the bard saying , " what's this thing that gets between us and shakespeare ? " one actress explains to us about shakespearean rules , " there are certain rules like iambic pentameter that must be learned , and once learned can be rejected . " many scenes are set up and just ad-libbed to see what will happen . kimball expects " an epiphany " and is disappointed . pacino chides him , " if you're really an actor , you can come back and have an epiphany . " it's only an opinion . it's never a question of right or wrong . " i think i'll save that quote and use it on the next hundred people that write me with personal insults when i have the bad taste not to like their favorite little movie . most of the scholars added little over the actors' opinions , but i did like one who said that , " an irony is really only an hypocrisy with style . " now there is an idea , hopefully , whose time has not yet come . the film is full of shakespeare and his beautiful and flowery language . i'll have her , but i'll not keep her long . " at one point he gives the famous , " now is the winter of our discontent made glorious summer . " and " a horse , a horse , my kingdom for a horse . " in such a star studded cast , i can't leave without listing the rest of those who contributed their considerable acting talent . as appearing as talking heads are : kenneth branagh , john gielgud , rosemary harris , derek jacobi , and kevin kline . howard shore's music is full of dramatic and effective choral pieces . finally , i want to point out that if you like this film , you will probably like a midwinter's tale ( a . a . looking for richard runs about 1 : 50 , but my press kit does not give the exact time . it is rated pg-13 for one brief gory scene where blood spurts and for a few cuss words . there is no sex or violence . this film would be fine for any kid old enough to be seriously interested in the subject . if you go to see it , hang in there and you will be rewarded with something special . a mixed , but in the end strong recommendation from me , and i award the film * * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
as i reported recently , hollywood is on a shakespeare tear . the studios just released three shakespearean films and have more about to be unveiled . this week i got to see for the first time the laurence olivier classic richard iii from 1956 . this is one of three shakespearean films where olivier was both director and star . in hamlet he actually won the award as well as garnered a nomination for best director . when i saw the film , the theater was rather full . since the sign on the door incorrectly said looking for richard , perhaps there were even a few people there wondering when al pacino would show up on screen . the audience's reaction was fascinating . the teenagers saw the costumes and the exaggerated acting style and laughed frequently at the film . to them the movie was a parody . otto heller's old saturated technicolor print and roger k . furse's disneyland style sets combined to look like the wizard of oz . actually , it visually reminded me of the 5 , 000 fingers of dr . moreover , olivier's elaborate costumes , bad hairdo , and fake nose kept me thinking how much olivier looked liked hans conried playing dr . terwilliker . most of the rest of the audience seemed to have my reaction , an interesting film , but not quite what i had expected . it certainly does not possess the seriousness of his henry v . the film opens with a hokey score by william walton . like most of the film , although it seems so dated today , it probably seemed fresh and stirring in its time . the sets have a fairy tale quality , and the whole movie , with the exception of the ending , has the claustrophobic feeling of a filmed play . today's shakespearean interpreters , especially branagh and zeffirelli , open up the plays much more when they bring them to the screen . in olivier's days , most of the movies were filmed in the controlled environments of the studios' sound stages . another difference is in the way shakespeare's text is adapted . most modern screenwriters , most especially baz luhrmann with his screenplay this year for romeo and juliet , truncate long monologues . alan dent and laurence olivier's script for this richard iii edit only slightly the long monologues and have them delivered in sparsely furnished rooms so that the viewer has few distractions . here i must be honest , as much as i admired olivier's richard iii , i found mckellen's more involving . olivier's film is interesting and certainly the acting is excellent , but i had trouble getting over how dated it all seemed . don't get me wrong , i do like old movies and think olivier's henry v is brilliant . it is at this point that the movie really came alive for me . one never knows of course what the original prints looked like . olivier's richard iii is less serious and more colorful than i had expected , but it is a film well worth seeing . i do not feel i can close without listing some of the many members of the cast . richard iii ran 2 : 19 in the version i saw , but some footage has been lost over the years . originally it ran about 2 : 40 . the film is not rated but would get a g today . there is no sex , nudity , or bad language . the little violence is cartoonish , but there is a little blood . the film would be fine for a child of any age , but young children can only appreciate the visuals since the language is way too obscure for them . i recommend the film to you and give it * * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
caught is a powerful character study and devastating love triangle . although the title of the picture is an obvious giveaway for the ending , it doesn't matter . this is no mystery ; the revelations are of the spirit and not of some artificial turn of an overly clever suspense plot . but he puts it more succinctly , " fish been very , very good to me . " get up at 5 : 00am , i'll take you to fulton's fish market . " yes , this is a show that strains credulity every now and then , but the emotions are real and the scenes so natural you will have no problem suspending disbelief . the unglamorous cinematography by michael f . barrow is as carefully constructed and important as the antonymic lush work of john toll in legends of the fall . these people look more like inhabitants of a documentary than a fictional romance . barrow loves close-ups and editor norman buckley combines them into dizzyingly fast sequences that keeps the pacing and the energy high . schub has this evil look that makes his every statement seem to have deep hidden portent . all of the performances are quite good , but maria conchita alonso owns every scene she is in . the ending is much more impressive and complicated that the straightforward title suggestions . it is the best part of the film , and i liked it all except the way the conflict between nick and danny is resolved . masterfully directed by robert m . young ( dominick and eugene and triumph of the spirit ) and with a well developed screenplay by edward pomerantz ( based on his book " into it " ) , caught is an entrancing film with sympathetic characters that keeps you glued to the screen . the script saves the best for last without ever cheating the audience along the way . sometimes devastating , periodically erotic , always smartly written and acted , and frequently tender , caught is a cornucopia of emotions . if you go , it will catch you in its spell . it is rated r for one dope smoking scene , lots of sex of many varieties , nudity , some violence , and bad language . it would be okay for mature teenagers only . for adults , i recommend it and give it * * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
think about the possibilities . a film about the conscious abandonment of sex as a lifestyle is not your typical hollywood fair . well , thanks to an hilarious script by normally serious screenwriter richard lagravenese ( the fisher king , a little princess , and the bridges of madison county ) and to careful direction by barbra streisand ( yentl and the prince of tides ) , streisand's new film , the mirror has two faces , is a delightful comedy . since there is a french film by the same name , perhaps this is a remake of it , but it plays like the remake of one of the romantic , american comedies of the 30s and 40s . the show has the look and sound of a film made by a typical big budget producer . the film opens to loud french horns and there is rarely a quiet moment as the music by marvin hamlisch ( sophie's choice ) dominates and overpowers much of the action . like a laugh track in a tv sitcom , the overly perky music keeps chiming in to remind us when we should feel romantic and when amused . the script is quite strong on its own and does not need this heavy reinforcement . here his performance is ok , but nothing special , which is pretty typical for most of his pictures . the clothes in the show are straightforward but funny . hannah's lines are wryer than the others , but well delivered with precise timing . the film isn't just a comedy . the scenes of rose in class interacting with her students could be textbook examples of how to enliven a class with energetic teaching . we're just agreeing to eat at the same place . " streisand , the actress , plays her part convincingly with absolute control and wit . bridges approaches his role too reserved , and he never made me believe that gregory ever cared for rose . he did get some great lines including the one when he told her , he was serious about her , " i want to be upfront . i am not interested in sex with you . " it'd still be me - only in color . " they're not standing in line for me . " at breakfast she announces , " by the way , would telling you now that i want sex tonight be enough of a warning ? " the way the story is wrapped up works comedically , and yet it feels false to the spirit of the movie . the last scene , however , is terrific and my favorite of the whole picture . for a film where the dialog is crisp and funny , and where the female lead is near perfect , i found the movie surprisingly uninvolving . i think the mistake was in the casting of jeff bridges . he was not believable , and worse than that , i never cared about him . a one way chemistry in a love story is not enough . i had a good time and i laughed a lot , but i left unrequited . the film wanted me to love it , but i was only able to laugh at it . comedies have no business going much past 1 : 40 since the jokes start getting repetitive and stale . the film is rated pg-13 for lots of conversation about sex , but no actual sex , nudity or violence . there are a few cuss words , but mainly the language is quite mild . the film would be fine for any kid who knows about sex and likes romantic comedies . i recommend the film to your for its humor and for streisand's lovely performance , and i give it * * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
in the spirit of full disclosure , let me admit upfront that i am from the beach boys generation . not only do i never listen to heavy metal , punk , or grunge music , i haven't listened to anything but classical for years . given these facts i am one of the least likely people on this planet to be recommending a documentary about the grunge movement in seattle . nevertheless , this review will do precisely that . first time director doug pray creates an accessible documentary film , hype ! , about the birth of grunge in seattle . it is an absolutely riveting film with broad appeal although given the subject , it may only be seen by a niche audience . if so , a lot of viewers are going to miss out on something well worth seeing . . . . this is all part of what goes into the music . . . . as the talking heads are speaking , deft editors doug pray and joan zapata intersperse video clips of the northwest's majestic beauty and absolute squalor . once the background is laid , the groups are shown in performance , but this is most assuredly not a rock video . the clips are short and used to illustrate the points . their shtick of hoping around like kangaroos and jumping into their instruments and into their audience as much from exuberance as showmanship . as you watch them , their joy becomes quite infectious . this is a high energy , very upbeat show . if it has a single message , it might be that this music is pure unadulterated fun . certainly the film is quite humorous and never pedantic . second , the groups are not all the stereotypes you may believe . if the word grunge makes you think of a bunch of white males with long unkempt hair and needle pitted arms , think again . moreover , some of the members look more like nerds than rock stars . as van conner of screaming trees puts it , " we were the guys in high school who couldn't even talk to the pretty girls . the show attempts to be a bit educational . this excerpt appears on the trailer so i've seen the clip fours times now , and i still can ascertain no difference which , i suppose , is the point . grunge is minimalist music . it is the energy of its players that breathes life into it . for a documentary , the camera work by robert bennett is surprising good . it says in the press kit that the film is done without " any narration or voice-over commentary . " this is done so that there would be " no outside pundit . " all of this gives the film a clarity that lets us eavesdrop without being noticed . the working title of the film was the fabulous sounds of the pacific northwest , but was changed to hype ! the best appears as fact in a new york times article that purports to give an up-to-date lexicon of grunge . although the movement's costumes are low rent , the fashion designers see them as an opportunity to turn them into something to make big profits . we have scenes of grunge outfits displayed on the marbled floors of exclusive shopping emporiums . similarly , the rock music publishing world wanted to write about nothing but grunge . my favorite article they show is the one headlined : " honey , i blew up the amp . " for a documentary that interviews three dozen people , it still manages to make all of them compelling . somehow you feel you get to know all of them in a short amount of time . many fictional films can't accomplish this with just a few stars . i ended up liking and caring about most of them . a fascinating group . although i'd still never buy any of their records , i loved watching their antics as they performed , and i loved listening to them talk . make a noise and play music your parents won't like . " hype ! runs just 1 : 24 . it was not rated at the time of the press screening , but i see no reason why it shouldn't get a pg rating . there is no sex , nudity , or violence . there may have been some bad language , but i didn't remember any . the film would be fine for anybody , but i am sure it would hold no interest for younger kids . the best documentaries , and this is one , take you into worlds you have never been or ever wanted to go and let you live there vicariously . i enjoyed my voyage into the world of grunge , and i think you would too so i am recommending the film and giving it * * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
repertorial theaters have just about vanished from the american landscape . there are a few left in some of the bigger cities and near some college campuses , but today's movie going public generally is stuck choosing between the latest massive action thriller or the latest ode to dumbness . viewing an old film on the big screen is an option for fewer and fewer people . i am fortunate to live in an area where the demise of these old picture palaces is not yet complete . it is an art house and sometimes repertorial theater . i had the pleasure of seeing the day the earth stood still ( 1951 ) for , i think , the first time in the theater . since i was five at the time it was released , i can not say for sure . like most sci-fi films of that era it is certainly hokey and full of special effects so awful that are more amusing than believable . untypical of early sci-fi , this one is serious and deals with issues like nuclear annihilation , and it even dabbles in politics . perhaps most surprising is that the movie has a well known cast and crew , including a twice oscar winning director , robert wise ( the sound of music and west side story ) . in short , they think we're a bunch of warmongers , and if we don't cut it out , they'll blow earth to smithereens . actually , as they present it , it has a much more childlike and believably simplistic logic . consider that motivation to rent the engrossing documentary film theremin : an electronic odyssey ( 1993 ) about its invention and its fascinating inventor , professor theremin . just a minute ladies and gentlemen , i think something is happening . . . " the robot is every bit as immutable and massive as a colonel sanders statue . i merely tell you the future of your planet is at stake . " god , i love science fiction . you get such wonderfully overblown dialog . there aren't mere problems . oh no , the fate of at least a planet and sometimes an entire galaxy is at stake . as klaatu puts it , " i'm impatient with stupidity . my people have learned to live without it . " sounds like he lives on my kind of planet . the way you have to suspend disbelief in some of the early sci-fi films is actually one of their charms . how many citizens think it is interesting enough to stay up late to observe it ? from beginning to end , the day the earth stood still is a lot of fun , and for its time , the production is well constructed and acted . it is unrated , but is pure g . there is no sex , nudity , violence , or bad language . if the show had been on earlier in the evening , i would have taken my son as it is fine for kids of any age . given the seriousness of part of the material and some of the slower pacing , kids will probably need to be seven or so to enjoy it . there was a nine year old in our audience who certainly seemed to enjoy it . i recommend the day the earth stood still to you and give it * * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
this is a small picture that feels like it was originally a short story , and it is not easy to characterize . i went to a special advance screening knowing nothing , not even the name of the picture . if you like films where the acting takes center stage , then sling blade is the film for you . calling it a southern gothic tale works about as good as anything i could have come up with . it reminded me somewhat of being there , rainman , and other movies , but it is fairly unique . he crafted the innovative scripts for one false move and a family thing . in sling blade , he does the script and , for the first time , tries his hand at directing . thornton's pacing too often bogs down . certainly , this is a film you want to take leisurely , but he goes overboard on the slowness . the acting , on the other hand , is so involving that one can easily overlook this flaw . i'd give thornton an oscar nomination for best actor if it were me , but i'm sure this obscure picture will be overlooked by the members of the academy . thornton has the speech cadence , the physical mannerism , and the overall presence of a southern hick with an iq in the low double digits . even though he is a killer , his gentle presence and slow walk immediately wins the audience's heart . you feel like crying for the poor guy . finally , he has jarmusch just recommend something . in an ongoing subtheme , many of the sane people in the film , like cox's worker scooter hodges ( brent briscoe ) , have less effective smarts than karl . the dialog between them is touching and reminiscent of that from being there . at this point in the film , i had no idea where the movie was going . " you think i'm scared of you staying here ? you're just a humped over retard . . . . doyle is so dumb and prejudiced that he is easy to hate , but this is not the typical overacted redneck part . yoakam gives a highly controlled performance of a guy so ignorant that he almost gets your sympathy until he opens his mouth . actually all of the characters are quite genuine . the irony is that karl , vaughan , and frank are all much more of a man that doyle . doyle is little more than the shadow of a man . since karl seems so serious about everything , people are convinced he is some sort of a sage . you seem to always be deep in thought . so what are you thinking right now ? " after karl's trademark pregnant pause , he says , " i'm thinking i could take more of these po'taters . " " i reckon i wouldn't mind a little supper . " the terse script has a poetic quality to it . it is touchingly humorous , but i rarely laughed in the film . i guess i was so wrapped up in feeling sorry for and worrying about my new friend karl . the cinematography by barry markowitz is naturalistic with the warm glow of a few incandescent bulbs . the houses are clean but cluttered with cheap furniture and tacky memorabilia . even the sound by jeff kushner has an extra serenity thanks to abundant use of the southern minstrels - crickets . technically , a well constructed film for one that clearly had to survive on a fairly low budget . most films fad in our minds like the setting sun . i suspect sling blade will too , but i will long remember the lovely performance of billy bob thornton . every halting movement of karl's was touching . i can not imagine any other actor approaching the role in a more convincing and captivating manner . an acting tour de force you don't want to miss . sling blade runs 2 : 15 . it is rated r for some profanity and one scene of strong but off screen violence . there is no sex or nudity . the film would be fine for teenagers . this is a tender show even given its prejudice and overriding threat of violence . i recommend this little picture to you and give it * * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
i saw this cannes grand jury prize winner at the press screening . i know of two people in the movie industry that claim it is the best film they have seen this year . " i thank you for the greatest gift of all - love . trier is an intense director whom you may remember from his film europa . it was the hottest show ever on danish television . the epic length and the risk taking emotional scenes by emily watson got the film the grand jury prize this year at the cannes film festival . this is a church that views seriousness and rules as a virtue and frivolity and fun as a sin . " i would say to you that if there is one of these commandments you do not love and do not obey , you have no business at the lord's table , " preaches the minister . the acting is incredibly beautifully all around , but none is in the same league as that of first time screen actress watson . as the show starts , the sex is so intense and frequent , i began to wonder if this was going to be a low budget and more realistic nine 1/2 weeks . the human body is kind of funny when you think about it . this part of the film is full of simple pleasures and reminds you of all the inherent beauty in the world . the picture is filmed in sepia by jean paul meurice and robby mueller . they use a handheld camera so that the actors can walk all around the set without being confined to playing just in from of the camera . this sounds better than it turns out . sometimes i thought the title referred to the waves on the screen , and i felt as if i was going to get seasick . my home videos are more stable , and with only a single camera , it was pan here and then pan there resulting in many a sequence being out of focus . at any rate , the sepia color was an effective choice . an interesting juxtaposition . in sharp contrast to the bleak outdoor openness , the drilling rig is a happy , but claustrophobic place to work . if you do not empathize with poor bess throughout the film , then you probably need to have your emotions checked at your next physical . watson's performance is oscar quality throughout . the script by peter asmussen , david pirie , and lars von trier and the direction have such a naturalness that it feels less like a movie that a home video of someone's life . i will not give this key plot twist away even if the trailer does . jan's command is the subject of the entire last half of the film . the very last scene of the picture is something special and not one you will guess so hang in there even if you think your bladder is going to burst . there is not a bad performance in the show . the film was way too long and the camera work drove me crazy , but emily watson's performance and her childlike acceptance of faith was something it would be an absolute shame to miss . a brilliant if somewhat flawed picture . the film is rated r for explicit sex , full male and female frontal nudity , some profanities , one drug usage scene , and some violence . teenagers should be mature to be able to go . i recommend this touching picture to you and award it * * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
we need to clear up a widely held misunderstanding . most of you by now are aware that it is a mixture of animation , featuring all your favorite looney tunes characters , and live action , featuring various sports stars from the nba . so far ; so good . now , you are probably under the impression that michael jordan acts in this movie . this is patently false . with the except of a single brief smile , he manages to maintain a dispassionate and deadpan look throughout the picture . more likely , he just can not act -- most of us can't . michael jordan is certainly a great athlete , and he provides a good clean-cut role model for youngsters , but this does not an actor make . the good news is that the cartoon characters in the film are excellent and the story by leonardo benvenuti , timothy harris , steve rudnick , and herschel weingrod is well developed and quite funny . this is one of those rare examples of a good movie with a lead that is doa . until this point the story is little more that a schmaltzy autobiography . never fear , the animated characters are here . the looney tunes challenge the height-challenged aliens to a game of basketball to see whether the tunes have to go to moron mountain or not . ever confident daffy ridicules them with , " too bad you can't practice getting taller , boys . " they then go and suck the talent and stature of various nba heroes which makes the aliens look like major steroid abusers . the picture works as a feature length cartoon . the looney tunes are as funny as i ever remember seeing them . there are constant jokes about product royalties . this " screwed " line is funny , but it is this and a couple of others where the humans talk about getting their " butts whipped " that gets the film a pg rating rather than a g . since there are so few g shows made , it is a shame that the producers went for a more bankable pg picture . yes , there are many teenagers and adults who will not go to g films thinking subconsciously that they are only for little kids , but why do the studios keep pandering to these prejudices ? changing these few lines would not have made the picture one scintilla less funny . all the tunes are hilarious in the show , but daffy is the best mainly because he gets the best material . no one is immune from the jabs in the show . along with the humor , the show is upbeat and full of energy thanks to the strong live action direction by joe pytka and animation direction by bruce smith and tony cervone . here he redeems himself in my eyes . i had great fun watching the film as did my son , my wife , and my 70 year old parents . technically the film is a success as well . the colors are bright primary ones that radiant joy . other than the lifeless lead and the little bit of needless bad language , i think the show is good fun , and i believe your family will too . space jam runs just 1 : 27 , and if you stay until the very end , you will get one last treat on the screen . it is rated pg solely for a few mildly offensive words . there is no sex , nudity , or violence . my son jeffrey , age 7 1/2 , loves the show and gives it " ten thumbs up . " he has a strange scale that i have never quite been able to chart . i recommend this picture to you , especially if you have kids , and i give it * * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
some movies are so bad , they are good . so it is with classic b movie director edward bernds's queen of outer space ( 1958 ) staring that memorable hollywood celebrity zsa zsa gabor . unlike ed wood , his movies have a bit more polished look . queen of outer space is a parody of science fiction films . whether it meant to be so at the time is another question . i thought the guy in front of me was going to make himself sick he was laughing so hard . hey , this is venus remember . you know , goddess of love and all that . the costumes by irene caine and thomas pierce are the piece de resistance of the picture . the earthmen have boring padded blue space suits , but , ah , the venusian women . they all wear brightly colored micro-miniskirts , low cut tops , and high heeled shoes that appear to be made of cellophane . the queen also wears a mask , which appears to have been borrowed from a greek tragedy that was being made in the next studio . the casting of the film was its other success . bernds seems bent on finding people without any talent . proof of acting ability would probably have been sufficient prima facie evidence to disqualify them for queen of outer space . the women did have to meet a single qualification -- attractive legs . the men are portrayed as nincompoops who utter one insulting sexist phrase after another . typical is lt . turner's question of his captures , " why don't you girls knock off all this gestapo stuff and try to be a little friendly . " the more i watched the film , the more i became convinced that there would soon be a remake of it . i kept seeing director renny harlin remaking it with his wife geena davis playing a slightly tougher version of the zsa zsa gabor character . for the astronauts i thought tom hanks would be good for the captain's role since he is smartest of a dumb lot . the sets are hokey and constructed with bright and gaudy colors . the " beta disintegrater " looks like something a kindergarten class might put together . the print of the film is a fresh one with strong color rendition . it is in surprisingly excellent shape . glad to hear you're on our side . " the men are too busy enjoying being outnumbered to ever want to return . my favorite in the film has to be zsa zsa . just so long as you can get into the spirit of the parody , this is one funny show . sort of the airport of the time . queen of outer space runs just 1 : 20 . it is not rated but would be pg . there is no sex , nudity , bad language , or violence other than people vanishing when shot with ray guns . i suspect kids would have to be ten or so to enjoy the picture . i expected to hate the film , but instead found myself laughing hard and often . i recommend this spoof to you and award it * * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
" you might as well know it right off . in 1943 director fred m . wilcox took a talented cast and created a tearjerker called lassie come home that is still good family entertainment today . some shows age , but the simple values in this one seem curiously apropos even though the language and the events are miles from today's wealthier society . they do not miss lassie . well , at least they put up a good front . even better is elizabeth taylor as his precious granddaughter miss priscilla . taylor made this picture the year before her signature role in national velvet . what makes the story , scripted by hugo butler and eric knight , so endearing and fresh is the pureness of its emotions . this was a time with a thin social safety net . forget luxuries like dog food . they did not even have enough for a full meal for the humans in the family . one of my favorite parts of the film is the music by daniele amfitheatrof . the picture is heavily orchestrated , and the music is played with great gusto . the melancholy scenes are full of solo violins wailing , the adventures are accompanied by the clash of cymbals , and the hopeful escapades are announced with trumpets . granted it is schmaltzy , but for a period film like this i would not want it any other way . leonard smith got an academy award nomination for the movie's cinematography . it is an early color picture where much of the color has faded in the print . the print is otherwise in good shape so that the beauty and grandeur of smith's mastery still comes through . this lassie is a great animal actor . never hammy and always charming , she does not overact as the animals do so often today . this tale of a simpler and much harder time should speak to people of any generation . if you have become tired of the mixed messages and bad language of what goes for kid's shows today , give lassie come home a try . view it with an open heart and mind , and it will enchant and move your family as it did ours . it is not rated , but would get a g . there is no sex , nudity , or bad language . my son jeffrey , age 7 1/2 , gives the picture thumbs up and says , " i liked it a lot ! " he thinks the picture is for kids 4 and up , and i agree . i recommend the film to you and your family and give it * * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
so what is beneath your feet ? when told to be more observant , most people cast their eyes skyward to see what might be above them that they are missing . and none of us have sensitive enough ears to heard the cacophony as the insects scurry about . viewers , other than certified entomologists , will find the world of the insects a totally unknown and magical one full of sound and fury . the film can even be seen as a romantic comedy , but this was the part my son liked least of all . for the comedic part , there are two beetles that begin a romantic entanglement of such intensity that they almost shake themselves off the tiny branch on which they are perched . like two lovers parked in a volkswagen , their choice of locale is just too confining . the brilliance of the documentary is not in the directing ( claude nuridsany and marie perennou ) nor the editing ( florence ricard and marie-josephe yoyotte ) although both are well done . what makes the film come alive is the technical mastery of the cinematography by thierry machado , claude nuridsany , marie perennou , and hugues ryffel . most sequences start with your typical view of a field and then , as in honey i shrunk the kids , the cameras move down to ground level . they use special lens to bring insects to life in incredible detail and with colors so bright they would put disney to shame . if you are not in awe of nature before you enter the theater , you will be when you exit . the photographers use some slow motion effects as when flowers are open . most of the scenes however are at normal speed . there are many great scenes in the picture . easily the most fascinating scene is that of the sacred beetle rolling its sheep dung pellet . how does a sacred beetle push a sheep dung pellet you ask ? when it gets stuck on a small twig , the poor beetle's brain is too small to figure out the simple solution -- just go to the other side and push it off . instead , our little guy uses sheer perseverance and hard work to dislodge it . imagine you are out on a lake and drops the size of cars start pounding you . pretty frightening . this is one of many times in microcosmos where the sound is even more impressive than the images . there are some problems with the film that would have been easy to fix . the show bogs down toward the end . the last quarter operates at a slower pace , and little of interest is shown . my son fell asleep during this part , and i don't blame him . she says a few words at the start and at the end , but nothing more . more narration , as the wonderful disney nature films from the 1950s showed , can add interest , humor , and enlightenment . i kept wondering what insect was i seeing and what was he doing . finally , the music by bruno coulais is quite effective but is used all too sparsely . microcosmos is a technical tour de force . i can't image missing something this unique . besides , where else can you see a show suitable for kids without a single product tie-in ? microcosmos runs just 1 : 20 , but would have been better with the last 15 minutes excised . the film has no humans and hence no human sex , nudity , or violence . yes , the insects do have sex , but your little ones will never figure out what is going on unless you care to tell them . my son jeffrey , age 7 1/2 , gives the show a " thumbs up but so slightly down that you couldn't tell . " i recommend the film to you and your whole family and give it * * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
my fellow americans was just such a movie for me . first , let me give some background on my tastes . all movie goers have preferences whether they admit it or not . there are always those actors whom they seldom like and certain genres that are their least favorites . i rarely like james garner or jack lemon although i know they both have talent . most recently i saw james garner's in maverick ( 1994 ) and jack lemon in hamlet ( 1996 ) , and i did not care for either of their performances . lemon is the only actor among a large cast that i did not like in the phenomenal four hour hamlet . as far as genre , old men buddy pictures rank right along with dumb teenager flicks among the ones i try my best to avoid . so it was that i approached the press screening of my fellow americans with much trepidation . that dan aykroyd is in it , further heightened my concern . well , let me cut to the chase . i laughed , and i laughed hard from start to finish while watching my fellow americans . garner and lemon are on the screen roughly eighty percent of the time and usually they are alone . the movie consists of one put down after another , frequently double entendres . the script by jack kaplan , richard chapman and peter tolan is full of high spirited and intelligent comedy . the show pulsates with energy and the fast paced music by william ross just adds to the fun . there is a scandal about haney , but haney's people plant evidence throwing the blame to kramer . if it seems far fetched , it is , but the beauty is that director peter segal manages to make it seem just plausible enough that the audience does not feel insulted . segal has a deft touch so that the comedic barbs are delivered with perfect timing . he even says , " funny thing is everybody thinks i'm this big idiot , and its all a big facade . " you can guess whom the screenwriters had in mind when they created his character . most of the show is about the long chase of kramer and douglas . we're about to bond . it will make me vomit . " usually kramer has nothing but insults for douglas . not missing a beat , douglas replies , " at least you admit it . that's the first step to recovery . " if you are looking for some good old fashioned humor , my fellow americans is the genuine article . not the best show out this christmas season , but the most pleasant surprise . it is rated pg-13 . there is no sex or nudity . there is a little violence and some bad language . given the level of sexual humor , the show would be appropriate only for kids say ten and up . i had a great time at the film . i recommend it and can easily give the picture * * * . i almost rated even higher . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
most sports commentators thought ali had no chance to win and could be hurt badly . no this isn't another rocky movie , this is real life . yes , i know you may hate boxing as much as i do , but it does not matter . this fight was more an entertainment extravaganza than a sporting event . besides , leon gast's documentary skills turn what was , according to the press kit , 300 , 000 feet of film into a compelling picture even for those of us who have no interest in sports . it worked . the story had extra meaning for me since i once met muhammad ali when i was in college in the late 60s . the only thing i remember is that his fists were the size of small boulders . i recall seeing them and thinking , " oh , my god . " the film amply demonstrates that foreman was even larger and much more powerful than ali ever was . ali is certainly one of the most interesting sports figures of this century . he brought an energy and a poetic approach to boxing that was unique . you probably remember his many poems with " fly like a butterfly , sting like a bee " being his most famous , but george plimpton claims one poetry world record for ali . he thought a minute and replied , " me whee . " plimpton claims that is even shorter than the one " the guinness book of world records " has listed as the shortest , " jesus wept . " he was full of energy and high spirits . as he so aptly put it then , " i'm young ; i'm handsome ; i'm pretty and i can't possibly be beat . " he was so resolutely confident and gregarious that he was an inspiration to kids . the show pulsates with energy thanks to the music . many of the great entertainers of that era from james brown to b . b . king went to zaire to see the bout . some of the interviews are contemporary to the fight and others are more recent . the film is full of surprises from the training to the fight itself , but getting to know the legendary ali is worth the price of the movie ticket . no one before or since has ever been like him . certainly , boxing was never more fun than when he was around . leon gast's ability as a filmmaker is perhaps best demonstrated when he manages to make the strategy and the execution of the fight both lucid and interesting . one tidbit that i found fascinating was the time of the big event , three o'clock in the morning . an upbeat , absorbing film that kept my eyes riveted to the screen . after the press screening , i talked with some of the people there . most were in shock , like i , that someone could take boxing and make it so intriguing for those of us who abhor the sport . of course , the best documentarians can do exactly that whether the subject is insects ( microcosmos ) , obscure musical instruments ( theremin : an electronic odyssey ) or blood sports . i left the screening feeling exhilarated after having vicarious shared some time with an athletic legend and utterly fascinating character . it was not rated at the time of the screening , but i would guess it to be pg-13 . there is brief nudity , but no sex or profanity . the boxing sequences are not gory , but boxing is inherently violent . i think the movie would be fine for kids say nine and up . i recommend it to you and give it * * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
from the director of the even more chilling single white female , barbet schroeder came up earlier this year with a thriller that will terrify parents , especially those with teenagers . the script by ted tally , based on rosellen brown's novel , is full of problems and flaws , but the stellar acting by meryl streep and liam neeson as the parents more than compensates for its deficiencies . they both give convincing and empathetic performances and raise an otherwise pedestrian movie into a compelling motion picture . i just want to hold him again . " he has the irrational hope that , " if we all keep quiet , maybe they've got no case . " you're talking about opposing ad campaigns . " both characters are underacted and miscast . the constant music by howard shore is sweeping and sad . the cinematography by luciano tovoli makes you feel the cold snowy settings and the effect the weather must be having on the characters trying to cope with their misery . the director's pacing is excellent , and the tension ratchets up by the minute . i was really moved by the show as i think any parent will be . nevertheless , i would be remiss if i didn't give you a feel for some of the illogical problems in the script . without giving away any of the twists in the story , let me just say that : 1 ) the one time the parents choose to make love in the story is ridiculous , 2 ) most aspects of the grand jury testimonies make little sense , and 3 ) then there is the show's conclusion . notwithstanding these flaws , the film works because of the acting by neeson and streep and the well paced direction . it is rated pg-13 . there is a little sex , some non-gory violence , and a gory photograph . there is no nudity and the language is pretty mild . the film would be fine for teenagers , and maybe very mature kids a year or two younger . i recommend the picture to you and give it * * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
the 1957 disney movie old yeller is like that . for most of the film , it is a light hearted slice of life with scenes reminiscent of the old disney nature documentaries . toward the end , the movie takes a sharp turn , transforming it into a tragedy . it is this concluding portion that wins the show's deserved reputation as one of disney's better live action films . the coates are so poor that the children have never seen a dollar bill , except a confederate one and " it ain't worth nothin' . " most of the acting in the film has the depth of a tv movie , but the simple script by william tunberg , based on the novel by fred gipson , takes a pleasant little tale and turns it into a moving story through the gripping conclusion . the acting by tommy kirk , as the boy who has to become a man overnight , is quite good and his character easily earns the audience's empathy . most of the show is little more that a charming series of animal incidents . old yeller manages to be a hero in most of these episodes causing the mother to exclaim , " if that don't beat all . i never saw such a dog . " director robert stevenson understands how lightweight the first part is and never tries to make it seem more important that it is . his saves the energy and emphasis for the last act . the cinematography by charles p . boyle produces the most precious scene of the show . boyle photographs sanderson from way down at arliss's level then switches to sanderson's view looking straight down on little arliss . a great reminder of how adults tower over kids in both height and authority . both of these have real potential to frighten younger viewers , but without these parts , the film would have been little more than a nice diversion . with them , the dog's value and bravery become absolutely clear , and travis has to face the harshness of his existence . i will resist the urge to tell you more . he tells his son , " if you go looking for something good to take the place of the bad , generally you can do it . " it is not rated , but would be a g . there is no sex , nudity , or bad language of any kind . " i loved it ! " said my son jeffrey , age 7 1/2 . " i think both the dogs were really good actors . " he gave the show a thumbs up and recommends the picture to kids 5 and up . i totally agree and award the film * * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
" is it ever too late to do the right thing ? " she underplays the role , which contributes to the film's palatability . rob reiner's direction gives the movie the same smooth tone of his last film , the american president . ghosts of mississippi is quite a funny film , but it should have been more disturbing . reiner concentrates on making the film easy to accept . only woods understands what should be the purpose of the picture which is to make us angry at beckwith and at the system of discrimination and hatred that he represents . the film is baldwin's . he has the vast majority of the screen time , and the script by lewis colick has the case revolving around him -- will the prosecutor find the evidence , how will he handle the trial , and so on . his performance is earnest and solid . there is nothing to fault and little to praise . other than the oscar worthy role by woods , the supporting cast is the best part of the film . his lines keep the audience laughing . the movie is slowly paced , and material could have easily been cut so that we could have learned something of medgar , the man . ghosts of mississippi is feel good movie about catching the bad guy . i would rather have been more challenged and outraged . reiner makes it all too simple and straight-forward . luckily woods , with a relatively modest number of lines , is there to remind us of how diabolical were the man and his deeds . his acting , together with a strong supporting cast , makes for a good film . it could and should have been a great one . it is rated r for some profanity , a realistic shooting , and mature themes . there is no sex or nudity . the film would be fine for any teenager , and i hope many will see the picture . i recommend the film to you and give it * * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
danish director lars von trier's highly acclaimed film breaking the waves explored its protagonist's conflict between her love and her god . norwegian director berit nesheim's the other side of sunday covers similar ground , but rather than a newlywed , its heroine is a young teenage girl facing the horrors of puberty . breaking the waves is close to the top of just about every critic's best of the year list for 1996 , and , although trier's picture is the better of the two films , i was similarly moved by both . american movies are obsessed with violent subject matter , and yet , luckily , violence rarely affects most of us personally . given all the life threatening situations movie characters encounter , you would expect to see them resort to prayer fairly often , but you do not . this film ignores violence and focuses its attention on faith and love . like the rebellious heroine in welcome to the dollhouse , maria is a young teen . if she had a single wish , it would probably be bigger breasts . arne borsheim's handsome cinematography is quietly in evidence , especially in the outdoor scenes . the music by bent aaserud and geir bohren for this gentle film is suitably lovely and moving , and many of the pieces have religious overtones . maria even gets into theological arguments with her father on jesus's need to go to the bathroom -- just like everyone else . let us pray and laugh . " much of the film deals with maria's exploration of her budding sexuality . this is a rich film and has all of the truth of life . it is so easy to empathize with maria's frustrations and temptations . this deeply wounds her self-esteem . " i believe in god , " she almost weeps . " i really do . but i want to be pretty too . " a powerful film with simple , heartfelt performances by all . the script by lasse glomm , berit nesheim , and reidun nortvedt is full of lines that are naturally provocative and yet ring totally true . a gem that , sadly , few will probably ever discover . i saw it at the press screening for san jose's cinequest film festival . i hope an american distributor picks it up . it deserves the wider audience than it will ever get . this sort of cinema does not . it is in norwegian with easy to follow english subtitles . it is not rated , but would get an r . there are nudity , sexual situations , and a few profanities . the film would be fine for teenagers . i recommend this picture to you highly and give it * * * . i came close to rating it higher . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . review written on : january 16 , 1997 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
with their medications they are coping with life well enough so that they are outpatients rather than residents . harry is played with sincere and touching emotions by john lynch . although they both have severe emotional problems , hers is worse so mckenzie's part proves the more challenging . confined to an important middle segment in the show , the sexual escapade is the central thread that convinces the audience of the strength of the lovers' commitment . first time director michael rymer , who also wrote the script , weaves a story full of inner truths and high energy . the way astral communicates is the most surprising aspect of angel baby . this is not done for comedic effect , but as a natural thing a mentally disturbed person might believe . up until this point the show had been touching and serious but upbeat . from the quotes and the situations you may think it is funny , but actually it is not . most would have been content to let them overact so they could have complete artistic freedom . by the end of the film , i was reduced to tears . this is a tragedy that is never manipulative and always genuine , and the heartfelt acting makes it a powerful movie . it is not rated but would get an r for the sex , nudity , and profanity . the film would be fine for serious and older teenagers . i recommend the movie to you and give it * * * . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
" i meant to say a step-father . " it gets worse . the kid is adorable but only speaks russian , and louka only speaks czech . thus is the setup for the sweet and touching little picture kolya by director jan sverak . kolya is this year's entry from the czech republic to the academy for consideration for best foreign film . kolya is a sometimes slow picture that quickly wins your heart . there is great chemistry in the acting of the two leads . he is a serious looking but playful man whom women in the story find charming , and so does everyone in the audience . the film's sexual situations are never explicit , and yet the show has some naturally erotic scenes . the best has to do with louka's bow while playing at a funeral . besides taking one of the lead roles , zdenek sverak , the father of the director , also created the imaginative script . in the story louka earns his income as a musician playing at funerals -- lots of funerals . zdenek sverak's performance is strong enough to carry the film , but he is usually upstaged by the other lead , andrej chalimon as the little boy with whom he does not quite know what to do . chalimon is one of the sweetest and most photogenic child actors i have seen in a long time . his facial expressions are so sincere and sad that they will steal your heart . most of the time he is that way , but in some precious little scenes , like the time he is read to in russian over the phone , he comes alive and chatters away . although it will come as no surprise that the script has louka coming to love his unwanted son , it is significantly more believable and involving than the hollywood-style versions we have come to expect . when the inevitable child-in-danger part comes , you will be as frightened as i was and yet never feel manipulated . the show ends on both a sad and a happy note . i was starting to cry at the former until i almost started to clap at the latter . kolya is a show that will make you richer in spirit for having seen it . it is rated pg-13 for sexual situations and for a couple of mild profanities . to be interested kids should probably be about ten or so . i recommend the film to you and award it * * * . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . 
it is blessed with the same producers ( jim sheridan and arthur lappin ) , writers ( jim sheridan and terry george ) , and much of the same supporting cast as 1993's highly acclaimed film in the name of the father . all three of the pictures cover the same period and all three suffer from the same bias , but , nevertheless , they are all excellent movies -- taut dramas with high energy and important stories to tell . the story uses two quite different mothers as the focal points . both actresses are well cast and give marvelous performances . " i would particularly like to remember , " she says . 'where there is discord , may we bring harmony . ' " one of the keys to the success of the film is the editing by craig mckay . " i don't need a lawyer , " says defiant gerald . " i'm not a criminal . i'm a prisoner of war . i don't recognize the court . " the movie manages to provide the facts without trying to gross out the audience . the wrenching of hunger protesters as they near death provides the most horrific scenes in the film , but this is not a movie that scares you ; it is one that moves you to compassion for the mothers and their plight . secondarily , it makes you sympathetic to the prisoners , no matter how heinous their original crimes . the director , terry george , knows how to lay the tension on thick . this is a show that will keep your eyes glued to the screen as the events unfold . the performances by mirren and flanagan get better and better as the show evolves . even if you know how it ends , i didn't , you will be swept up into the circumstances that lead to the conclusion . perhaps the mothers' entire state of mind can be summed up in one of the interchanges close to the end of the picture . it is rated r for scenes of people starving to death , for some violence , and for profanity . the show would be fine for mature teenagers . i recommend this excellent film to you and give it * * * . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
she has the delightful look of a geriatric pixie . albert brooks is one of the best comedic actors , directors and writers in america today . his brilliance in this picture shines through as he does all three roles with grace and perfect timing . together they fashion an intelligent script so funny that a few times i laughed so hard that i almost made myself sick . although it did not make mine , it is a comedic gem . what i like even better than the humor in the story is the freshness of the character of the mother . usually , strong mothers like beatrice dissolve into jewish mother cliches with lots of overbearing lines delivered with heavy overacting . this is not at all the character that reynolds gives us . " we just have sex occasionally . " no more food . it's like fantasia . " john is a science fiction writer , but not a particularly successful one . they have changed the words to match mother's plot , but i will not reveal any of them . the biggest problem i had with the movie occurred 1 : 35 into the picture . i suddenly realized that the movie was about to end . i was upset . i had grown to like these people and did not want them to leave me . since i pride myself in warning my readers about shows that can prove troubling , let me do just the opposite with mother . i want to allay your fears . the ads clearly and accurately reassure us that , " no mothers were harmed during the making of this motion picture . " some movies work best for certain audiences . i think this film has a wide appeal , but for those of us with mothers of beatrice's age , it holds an extra fascination . my mother is not at all like beatrice , but she has the same diminutive size and approximate age as reynolds , so in the scenes with beatrice just barely seeing over the steering wheel i got several extra chuckles . although i invited my wife to the press screening and she loved the movie too , i probably should have invited my mother instead . on the other hand , i still remember when i was twelve and invited my mother to this new hitchcock film called psycho . when the nude shower scene suddenly came up , i was really worried about what she would think of me for inviting her to see such as a show . it worked out fine , but i still remember my fear -- not of the scene , but of having lost face with someone i respected . mothers are like that . it is rated pg-13 for the mature themes and some mild profanity . there is no sex , nudity , or violence . the show would be fine for kids say ten and up . i recommend this charming comedy to you and give it * * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : january 7 , 1997 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
i saw changing habits at its world premier and was fortunate the next day to be granted a personal interview with its talented director , lynn roth . this review includes the highlights of the interview as well as some of the comments she made at the premier . since the movie has a well known cast and crew , i predict the picture will quickly be picked up by a distributor . although they are played believably , they are each quite funny . she doesn't speak because she doesn't feel any need . she does end up saying exactly one word in the show , and that scene is precious . the story is hard to categorize . this part is a quasi-romantic comedy . the movie is both enchanting and wise . if forced to categorize it , i guess i would label it a coming-of-age story , but it is so much more . the performances are all good with one exception . i thought christopher lloyd took too long to get into character . some shows are more than the some of its parts , and this is one . i attribute this to the talent of first-time director lynn roth . technically the show is highly polished . most of this can be attributed to the choice of an accomplished cinematographer , michael mayers . you may have admired his work in spanking the monkey and denise calls up . the only major problem i had with the movie was the surprising turn the show takes toward the end . i thought it was too abrupt and out of character for the rest of the film . i discussed this with the director . she told me she wanted this part isolated because she did not want the film to be too much of a downer . i found out more about the picture and roth's career . she said that the film was made over a period of just 20 long days . the producer , whose background is in casting , wanted dylan walsh to play felix , but he said no . she said that i looked old enough to have seen it , which i was , and i did . from there she had a series of positions in writing , producing , and sometimes acting . she likes theatrical movies best because it gives you a freedom that television does not . she did say that some of the cable channels , she mentioned a couple , are beginning to encourage directors without putting the limitations on them that networks normally do . i hope the distributors form a good habit by picking up her work quickly . in a strong film festival , this was one of the best . it is not yet rated but will probably get a pg-13 for a little bad language . the show would be fine for kids say 10 and up . i recommend the show to you and give it * * * . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . review written on : january 30 , 1997 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
as i have told my readers before , the best documentaries take you to worlds you would never go to on your own . stand tall is a fascinating feature length documentary about the sport of bodybuilding . if you're thinking , that it's already been done and that the film was 1977's pumping iron starring arnold schwarzenegger , you'd be right . this film , which i saw at san jose's cinequest film festival , takes a different approach . even if the thought of seeing a bunch of greased up men flexing their biceps is not your idea of a good spectator sport , you will be hard pressed not to like this captivating film . it is much more than a sports film . he told me that nalley was willing to give up on having schwarzenegger in it if need be , but booth knew how important it was to have a big name in the film . once he actually spoke with arnold himself , arnold was gracious and excited about appearing even though his salary consisted of nothing more than a box of his favorite , albeit expensive , cigars . this is a documentary that was well planned in advance and carefully edited . the result is a story with a strong narrative drive and an enlightening script . you can see this scrawny kid with a hearing aid who seems the least likely person in the world to become a world class bodybuilder . booth said after the movie was over that the bodybuilders in the picture grew up in an age when none of them ever used steroids , so lou's feat is all the more impressive . i have to admit the scenes of the rippling flesh all shiny from the bodybuilder's oil , did make me want to laugh sometimes . and yet , who among us , especially we males , has not looked in the mirror and tried flexing his muscles . ourselves . bodybuilding is rather like that . certainly there is the adoration of the fans , but it is a solitary sport requiring enormous dedication to one's own body . as i sat in the audience , i began reflecting on competitive body sizes . bodybuilders force themselves to exercise so that their arms are about the same size as the waists of models who starve themselves to get their waists that small . there is a certain symmetry to the two endeavors if you think about it . the men in the picture , who are just slightly younger than i , have to be admired for their dedication . i am proud of having written 253 movie reviews last year , but my hard work pales in significance to the dedication of these men . good documentaries are full of little tidbits that you would never guess . you might not be surprised to learn that bodybuilders push their bodies so hard that they injure themselves frequently . what you might not guess is that these guys are hard to x-ray . the x-ray technicians have to boost the settings an indeterminate amount since these guys are so thick -- not with easy to see through fat , but with relatively opaque muscles . so what was wrong with the documentary ? not much . its only failing is that of many low budget documentaries , whose makers do not fully appreciate the importance of lighting . some of the scenes are just too dark . faster film or more lighting equipment would have helped enormously . what is not clear is if the film will end up being shown to mass markets or tailored more to sports fans . i told him i thought the film would appeal to a wide audience so i hoped he found a distributor who would distribute it thus . let me end on my favorite piece of trivia from the film . stand tall runs a well paced 1 : 24 . it is not rated , but would get a g rating . there is nothing to offend anyone of any age . the show would be fine for any kid interested in it . i am sure lou would have loved to have seen a film like this when he was young . i recommend this fascinating movie to you and give it * * * . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . review written on : february 2 , 1997 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
the australians have a knack for screwball comedies that are actually funny . american filmmakers too often confuse humor with bad taste . writer and director gerard lee's 1995 film all men are liars was a box office sensation in australia . i saw it at san jose's cinequest film festival . since i said it was an australian comedy , you might leap to the conclusion that the film was about cross-dressing . if you did , you'd be right . all men are liars is funny , sweet , and romantic . i'll outline the main action , but there are more subplots than you can count . you are likely to leave the show arguing with your friends about what part was the best . let me state my opinion upfront . both are wonderful actors , and they make it is easy for the audience to live their romance vicariously . it is sugar week in a small-town in the middle of nowhere in australia . jarratt has one of the best parts of the film and manages to steal most of the scenes he is in . it is a family heirloom of hers , and if the piano goes , she goes too . other than the delicious in-joke about the piano , irene's whole part only serves to slow down the action and should have been eliminated . campion's signature film is the piano , so having a piano play a promenade role in lee's picture was no accident . you can probably guess the basic structure of the rest of the story , but the beauty is in the details . most of them are small but delightful , with the best little scene dominated by larry , the boys' pet lizard . the moral of this vignette is don't take a lizard on a date . david price is terrific as michelle . their romance is delightful and innocent -- from the classic scene where they almost skinny-dip to the one of michelle changing clothes off-screen . both of the leads are lovable , and the script has just enough poignancy in it to make you care and worry about them . there are some fun musical numbers too . toni pearen is a popular singer in australia , and i liked her naturalness much better than the constant mugging for the camera that was prevalent in a recent all-musical movie that i endured . the script is smart and upbeat . it works more by its character development and its joke setups than by its one-liners . still , i remember the line of the local stud . the stud's pathetic cry is , " if i need therapy for this , you're paying for it . " a show with a great ending , and one that leaves a song in your heart and a contagious feeling of joy . in australia it was rated pg , but has not been rated by our mpaa . i suspect it will get a pg or a pg-13 rating . there is a brief shot of rear male nudity , and i think there may have been a little profanity that i forgot to record in my notes . the show should be fine for kids ten and up . i loved this little gem and recommend it to you . i give the film * * * . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . review written on : january 31 , 1997 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
okay , here's a quiz for you , but you have to get all of the questions right in order to pass . let's start with an easy one . when you think of alfred hitchcock , what sort of films come to mind ? a little harder , but still easy -- how about brian depalma ? martin scorsese ? robert wise ? you say you need help ? well , to get you started , let me remind you that he directed the movie that won the first academy award for best picture , wings ( 1927 ) . and your answer is ? you say you are stumped ? well , i confess it was a trick question . the feature length documentary wild bill : a hollywood maverick argues correctly that he was associated with no particular genre and that his body of work lacks any common theme . his brilliance was in the execution . william wellman was a world war i flying ace and a temperamental director . director todd robinson's documentary is quite funny when relating the incidents of wellman's life . my favorite is when the studios gave wellman a script so bad that he refused it . most people would return it with perhaps a nasty note -- not wellman . once the desk was buried in manure , wellman put the script on top with a note that said , " here's what i think of your script . " needless to say , actions like this did not endear him to the hollywood establishment . several of the sequences focus on his appearance on the tv show " this is your life . " i asked him if there were any of his father's films that did not seem to fit . it is the favorite of the people who made the documentary . the weakness of the documentary stems from the lack of focus . i asked writer and director robinson if there was a script for the documentary and he said , " no , i wrote it in the editing room . " still the lack of a central theme is due more to the variety of wellman's films than to any lack of organization by robinson . this fascinating film has been submitted for oscar consideration for best documentary . it is not rated but would be pg for some of the themes . the film would be fine for any kid old enough to be interested . i recommend it to you and give it * * * . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
anne de salvo is a talented actress who usually plays supporting roles . if you see her , you will probably recognize her . women without implants is an extremely funny comedy about women's breasts . the film is much less risque than you might guess , and de salvo just signed a deal to get it shown on the lifetime cable network on march 9th . i suspect she will be able to show it without editing since , as funny as it is , it is never very explicit . as always , i will keep my reviews even less explicit and g rated . each has a theory as to which is the best brand and why . as in all of the show , every line is precious . de salvo's script has humor that hits the mark with enough truth in every line to make the laughs bite . this is no ugly film with a handheld camera and a low budget look . the print looks great with a hazy warmth . even the editing ( adam bernardi ) is crisp and dramatic . although it is a short film , there are several great scenes . i will not reveal her actions then nor what she does at the trip to the plastic surgeon , but rest assured that you are in for many laughs and several surprises . after the film was over , i got to ask the director some questions . i was surprised to find out that the script was not ad libbed at all . she wrote every word of the script before the project started . it has the naturalness of some actresses sitting down together and starting to cut up to see what material they could improvise . de salvo said the message she is trying to give in the film is , " what's right for you is right for you , and it's nobody else's business . " the film does exactly what she set out to do and delights and charms its audience in the process . women without implants runs just 20 minutes , but there is so much in it , i thought it was twice that long . it is not rated , but would probably be pg-13 for the frank conversations . the film would be fine for kids 10 and up . i enjoyed this funny , short film so i recommend it and give it * * 1/2 . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . review written on : january 30 , 1997 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
actress jennifer jason leigh has tremendous talent , and i have been a fan of hers for some time now . although she has been the best part of many films , my favorite pictures of hers are single white female and georgia . the only bad performance i ever saw her give was in kansas city , and i blame that more on robert altman's direction than her acting . luckily , i had never seen the film . at the of this review i have included some of the leigh's comments on the picture . ( earlier in the day at another film at the festival i looked at the woman sitting near me and reflected to myself , " hmm , she looks like jennifer jason leigh . " i glanced again , and thought to myself , " that's because she is jennifer jason leigh ! " she is small , vivacious , funny , and outspoken . it paints a bleak picture of a world without hope . it is a study of what happens when a metaphorical black hole absorbs all the joy of life . usually , when hollywood attempts pictures like this , they end up sugarcoating them so much that their message is diluted . here , director ulrich edel and screenwriter desmond nakano take hubert selby jr . 's bleak novel and bring it to the screen without apology . the heterosexuals hate and torment the homosexuals . the sets are gritty and full of tacky furniture from the 1950s . the cinematography by stefan czapsky is dark and somber with heavy shadows in every scene . i am not sure that you would be able to see it very well on a television since the contrast is so low . mark knopfler's ominous music takes place on the low registers with notes that are out slow and painful . the show is multilayered and has a large cast . although tralala is the glue that holds the story together , many of the parts both large and small are particularly well done . the best performance is leigh's . sal views injuring georgette as little more than sport . the film deals realistically and frighteningly with the problem of homophobic violence . in one scene georgette is stabbed , and the blood spurts like an artery was punctured . cinequest warned us in advance of the intensity of the picture , and they were right . there is one optimistic person in the film . after the film , leigh said that the incident was necessary and without it the film " would have been a cheat . " this scene should have gotten an nc-17 rating for the picture . i believe in 1989 the only choices were r and x so given that perhaps the r rating it got was correct at the time . after the ending , there is a brief epilogue . in it the first rays of hope shine through . like the first sunshine after a hurricane , its warmth felt soothing and somehow tranquil . after the film finished , leigh answered questions about it . she said that she really wanted the part of tralala , but patricia arquette was originally cast for it . none of the names were familiar to me . looking at paintings was not something i expected . " it is showing you a world without love , " she said when asked what the movie's message was . leigh said the film was good for her since it forced her , for the first time , to get in touch with her feelings . " i love it , " she retorted . an actress with a lot of talent , and one not afraid of speaking her mind . it is rated r for explicit and violent sex , nudity , graphic violence , dope smoking and profanity . the film is for adults and not for teenagers . although granted the film will be too intense for some , i give it thumbs up and * * * . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . review written on : january 31 , 1997 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
" right here in this life , you get reincarnated , " says mildred . " you change . " although she is not yet a grandmother , she looks like one , albeit an extremely attractive one . mildred is played with earnest realism by gena rowlands . rowlands rejects the typical sentimental characterization for roles of this type and instead imbues mildred with a documentary style straightforwardness . as much as i admired unhook the stars , i kept thinking the film was john cassavetes-lite . this is not meant as an insult . john's actors played characters with their emotions on the edge whereas nick's characters have theirs more in check . both , however , have characters that are so real you will swear they are not acting . tomei's performance is out of character for her , but excellent . he is a serious kid who almost never speaks . less believable is his behavior , which is perfect . rather than viewing this as an imposition , mildred looks upon this as a great opportunity . perhaps the most touching scenes of the show are the ones of mildred teaching j . j . she recasts every entry in terms that j . j . can comprehend . one of the few failings of the script by helen caldwell and nick cassavetes is that they do not have a proper grasp of what is possible for a seven-year-old boy . i have one , and i know . mildred's lessons are too often couched in language for a ten-year-old . do . a ten-year-old could do this perhaps , but not a seven . still these are the only two such problems with the story . is dead-on . she says , " that's what thanksgiving is all about -- meeting friends and eating a lot . " from the time they leave the bar , the scene is a beautiful blend of subtle and touching humor . as throughout the film , it all rings true . a picture with few surprises manages to have some towards the end . even so , it is more a character study and a ( second ) coming of age film than one with a strong narrative drive . her second life may have even more promise than her first . it is rated r for strong language . the film would be fine for any teenager . i recommend it to you and give it * * * . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
so what are some of the characteristics one might look for in a first time congressional representative ? rhode island's kevin vigilante has these credentials , so you might think he would have a good chance when running for an open seat in congress . well , if you did , you would be wrong . the film is not about ideology or political parties . i saw the film as part of san jose's cinequest film festival . i have been told that some pbs stations have played the film as well . in fact , he is getting less than ten percent from all medical groups combined and most of his contributions were small ones . ( i should point out that the facts from this review come from the documentary which i have every reason to believe are accurate , but i have no way of verifying the facts as presented . ) up until this point , vigilante has been saying nothing but nice things about kennedy personally , no matter how false his negative ads are . vigilante says the latest diatribe from kennedy is too much , and that he never faked any injury . in it she says that if kennedy didn't care about me , why do you think he would care you . taking on the kennedys runs 57 minutes . it is not rated but would be a g . i was mesmerized by the film . i recommend it to people of all political persuasions and give it * * * . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
" i ain't got a dime , " says the opening song . " i don't what to do . " it is the time of the great depression and over a quarter of a million teenagers are riding the rails . some kids go for economic reasons and others purely for adventure . he enjoys it so much he never wants to give it up . riding the rails is a polished and moving feature length documentary by michael uys and lexy lovell . i saw it at san jose's cinequest film festival , and it is so powerful that i will never forget it . their tales are full of poignancy and excitement . i found myself feeling sorry for them and envious at the same time . taken together , they may move you to tears and at the same time you may be smitten by the desire for such an adventure yourself . or as another one put it , " it's dangerous , that's why it's fun . " the film is filled with songs from the depression , most of which i had never heard and all of which i found touching . still , it is the words that have the most impact . riding the rails runs 1 : 11 . it is not rated but would be pg for the themes . it would be fine for any kid interested . i recommend the film to you and give it * * * . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
few directors have such a unique , some would say bizarre , style as david lynch . his latest , lost highway , is his most unorthodox film yet , but one of his better ones . the press kit describes the movie as a " psychogenic fugue " and a " moebius strip " with elements of lewis carroll and franz kafka . yes , it is all of those and more . lost highway blends film noir with the tension of a horror movie . the power comes from the director's use of silence . ( as you read this review you may be inclined to conclude that you have no interest in seeing the movie , but the film works more effectively than any possible verbal description of it might lead you to believe . ) the sound effects editing and the music enhance the heavy tension . at first , the film has complete silence interspersed with dialog -- no background ambient noise at all . slowly , low natural background sounds are introduced and then this gives way to music consisting of long , low rumbling notes designed to frighten . i see so many films that i get somewhat desensitized , but the first part of this movie managed to scare me badly with devices as natural as the sudden , loud ringing of a phone . an intense and very disturbing film in the beginning . when the parameters of the mystery are revealed , the tension stays , but the film becomes much less disquieting . i am not going to cover any of the film's details . i will just set up the first few minutes of the film . suffice it to say that the film involves character transformation , reincarnation , surreal dreams , and more . to give a feel of what is in store for the viewers , consider another early scene . the script by barry gifford and david lynch perplexes the viewers with all of the false views and disconcerting realities of an escher print . some of the vignettes in the film are priceless . the cinematography by peter deming pushes the limits of the film noir motif . not only are scenes dark but some characters walk into the darkness and disappear as if into an astronomical black hole . you can think of the show as a film constructed with non-euclidean geometry . i still don't understand it , but the movie is not made to be comprehensible . what is less satisfying is the way characters caught in a deadly web such as this never seek advice on what is happening to them . the answers to this and all of the film's conundrums are in the final analysis , unknowable . it is rated r for graphic violence , sex , nudity , and profanity . teenagers should be mature if they go . i was fascinated by this long enigma so i recommend it to you and give it * * * . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
message to love : the isle of wight festival , is a new documentary about the festival that works both as a concert film and as a series of mini-dramas . is there going to be a riot ? which drugged-out anarchist from the audience will demand to be heard next ? although both parts of the film are fascinating , i was more energized by the music than interested in the festival's logistics and nightmares . since i was at grad school in berkeley at the time , the music possessed images of dreamy nostalgia for me . although the artists were top-notch , their performances at the isle of wight festival were generally subpar . even if the movie is no woodstock , it still possesses a charm all its own . with performances by the doors , the who , miles davis , donovan , jimi hendrix , kris kristofferson , joni mitchell , and , drum roll , tiny tim , message to love would be a hard film to dislike . although the camera spends too much time concentrating on the performers midriffs and other close-ups , the music's power dominates . the sound track's quality is quite good , which might not be expected given the age of the film stock . director murray lerner's favorite part seems to be the back stage melodrama , which manages to work its way on stage more than once . one drugged-out hippie grabs the microphone to complain that , " this festival business is becoming a psychedelic concentration camp . " lerner manages to find a single individual , " the commodore , " to counterbalance the blather of the festival's fringe elements with his own balderdash . " it is not just hippie fun , " he explains . other than jim hendrix , i did not see a single black at the festival , which made the commodore's charges all the more bizarre . " i'm not going to be forced to give a free concert -- that doesn't make any sense , " complains joni mitchell . most of the audience was so stoned that their thoughts were gibberish . " commercial music is co-opting our vegetables , " carped one gatecrasher . as the show draws to a close he gives what could be termed the motto of the festival crowd . i'm not . " message to love : the isle of wight festival runs 2 : 10 . it is rated r for full frontal female nudity , drug usage , and profanity . given the pro-drug message expounded by some in the film , i would want to talk to my teenagers before i let them see the film or , better yet , take them if they wanted to go . i enjoyed the music and was fascinated by the outrageous beliefs of the crowd so i give the documentary a thumbs up and * * * . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
" what am i going to say ? " going back to your tenth high school reunion is hard , particularly for those with difficult-to-explain professions . " do you have to do post-graduate work for that ? " beaming , the dad compliments him , " good for you -- growth industry . " as you can see , the strength of the new film grosse pointe blank lies in its intelligent and funny script by john cusack and tom jankiewicz , which they based on a story by jankiewicz . equally good is the casting , the acting , and the directing . director george armitage , who last did the excellent , but underappreciated , miami blues , brings a perfect sense of comedic timing and an ability to orchestrate action sequences perfectly to blend in with the humor . the ending montage , for example , is pure spaghetti western , but armitage's approach is fresh and funny . although the film has a surfeit of cartoonish violence , it remains good spirited and charming throughout . the casting of aykroyd as a paid killer is so unlikely that it ends up being a perfect choice . " clip your string . " " what do you want in your omelet ? " " nothing , " replies a tense martin . " well , that's not technically an omelet , " corrects the waitress . " see what it feels like . " they rekindle their romance in the film , and it almost works , but gets lost in the direction . armitage can not decide if he wants to go for the romantic angle or the comedic with the result that neither is fully satisfying . he should have approached it with complete earnestness as he did the whole assassin part . the people at it are so weird that he becomes the sanest person there . as someone who has been to all of my high school reunions , i can vouch for the fact that some strange people do show up . one of my favorite films , something wild , also deals with the high school reunion venue . a film with several big laughs , but my best time was with all of the inventive , smaller snippets of dialog . an unapologetically funny film that was happy to have no message other than laughter and no intention other than making a well deserved profit -- just like martin . ( " you're a psychopath , " said debi . " no , psychopaths do it for no reason , " said martin . it is rated r for cartoonish violence , one gory scene , a drug usage scene , and some profanity . teenagers and adults alike will love the show , and the film should be fine for any kid over twelve . i recommend this fast paced and good spirited comedy to you and give it * * * . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
citizen ruth has the audacity to skewer both sides of the most controversial issue in america today -- abortion . they figure that the judge's twisted logic of kill the fetus through an abortion or i will try you for abusing the fetus will turn the case into a cause celebre , which it does . laura dern , acting for just union scale wages , gives a brilliant and unflinching performance in a totally unsympathetic role . if you've never seen a spray paint can sniffer in action -- i hadn't -- then you have no idea how gross it can be . the script by first-time screenwriters alexander payne and jim taylor never tries to gloss over her actions or give her some big redemptive scene . her serious role is the fulcrum that supports the rest of the characters , who are drawn so broadly that they become delicious parodies . so , you ask , can they form a compelling story out of this ? the tug of war over the baby in ruth's body becomes the basis of a comedy that works surprisingly well . first-time director alexander payne , one of the co-writers , has a deft sense of how to balance the serious with the comedy and balance the goring of both sides of the political debate . i was at a special screening of the film at which the film's editor kevin tent spoke . he said that although he believes the film does not favor either side , many people with strong views pro or con on abortion believe that it favors their own camp . it just isn't done . other anti-abortion activists are more articulate . diane's unabashed lesbianism does not shock ruth , but how little diane ends up caring for ruth does . both sides call in their big battleships -- their respective national leaders . here reynolds displays some long hidden talent . ) " . . . keep the chart handy as we figure the capitalization effect on your assets , " advises larry . to this ruth moans , " why can't i ever have what i want ? " and later , " my body belongs to me ! " nevertheless , the show is resolved in a fresh and pleasantly surprising ending . the first was about the film's distribution problems . even so , miramax never put it into general release . one member of the audience speculated that perhaps the film was considered a hot potato since it poked fun at so many groups . tent went on to talk about the editing of the picture . he said that he was surprised at the casting of kurtwood smith as the father since he usually plays a heartless bad guy . smith ended up being so funny that they had to edit out a lot of his scenes to keep the movie from going overboard . the other tidbit he gave was that originally there was an additional ending added after the film's current ending . some of the scenes were left on the cutting room floor , but a few of them made it into the final print . she switches them off and turns to a soap opera . tent says the role of the editor and director is that of hypnotists . well , he and payne certainly hypnotized and mesmerized our audience with their delightful and insightful black comedy . it would be fine for older teenagers . i recommend the film to you and give it * * * . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
films live or die on the strength of their scripts . writer and director kevin smith's third part of his new jersey trilogy , chasing amy , amuses , delights , and moves the audience with its highly irreverent dialog . the trilogy's first two parts were the acclaimed , low-budget hit clerks and the less successful mallrats . ( chasing amy's ending credits include " and to all the critics who hated our last flick -- all is forgiven . " chasing amy offers much more than an effective screenplay . the film's actors breathe life into characters that in other such plots would quickly degenerate into cliches or slapstick . instead , this picture's population has some eminently likable people who are , frankly , just fun to hang out with . banky , whose role as a mere cartoon " tracer , " gets him no end of ridicule . joey lauren adams as alyssa " finger cuffs " jones , gives a breathless , almost marilyn monroe style , rendition of a blonde bombshell . seeming at first to be someone only slightly smarter than a bimbo , her part rapidly evolves into the most complex and challenging character in the story . an accomplished actress whose compelling performance draws you into all her character's unpredictable twists and turns . the show has two parts -- starting as comedy but slowly evolving into a touching drama . the first , and admittedly my favorite , part relies on natural , but highly sexual conversations for the humor . the good spirited dialog has the quick cadence of before sunrise , but the language and the subject matter revolve around explicit sexual repartee . most of this is almost impossible to capture in a review for general audiences . one of the few printable lines has banky explaining his sexual techniques to alyssa over drinks on what looks like a double date . he says he tells his lovers exactly what is happening , " like cnn and the weather channel -- constant updates . " ( yes , i did not realize these existed either . ) the simple plot of the picture moves in surprising ways , and the film gets more mileage out of its setup than i thought possible . i expected the script to stay with the jokes until they had long since worn out their welcome , but part way through , it becomes obvious that smith has a serious story to tell about relationships . as she flirts incessantly with him , the chemistry between them is genuine and infectious . well , maybe not . shock would be a mild description of holden's reaction . in one of the plot's delicious twists , holden and alyssa stay great friends and have a string of platonic dates . alyssa probes holden's feeling about homosexuality . " so , you've never been curious about men ? " " well , i've always wondered why my father watched hee haw , " he responds . how this gets resolved i will not say , but it happens before the midpoint of the show , so most of the film occurs afterwards . in an unpredictable story , my favorite part is how , at the end , holden attempts to bring closure to their myriad of difficulties . the scene comes out of left field , but the emotions in it are raw and honest . in a show about relationships , most of the people are either gay or lesbian . the chemistry and camaraderie between them could form the subject for an entire review . kevin smith's skills are best shown in the script . his directorial judgments are uneven . smith and scott mosier edited the film , and too often they fell in love with their material . many scenes would have been handsomer with a little trimming . the sign of a good movie comes with your reaction when the ending credits roll . i left the theater wishing i did not have to leave my newly found friends . a more likable threesome i have not seen in some time . it is rated r for explicit and constant sexual humor and for profanity . the film would be fine for mature teenagers . i recommend this sweet and captivating picture to you and give it * * * . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
holding that oscar , plus the time president clinton shook my hand , will be among those small events of my life that i will never forget . ) if you have never heard of the poet , journalist , and remarkable human being called mark o'brien , you are not usual . yu said she was pleased that they had the faith that she could make serious films as well . o'brien calls his iron lung , " a huge and ugly machine , " which it certainly is . with few living polio patients left requiring iron lungs , the medical industry has little incentive to devise something more efficacious than this hideous looking piece of 1950's technology . ( the film hit home for me . the belief was that the virus was airborne , and the warm weather was when it was most likely to strike . people at the time did not know whether this theory was valid or pure quackery , but without a serum to prevent the disease , parents tried whatever they could . old footage of this adds extra poignancy and immediacy to the picture . o'brien's thoughts are more down to earth than hawking's but nevertheless intriguing . yu manages to know how to ask just the right questions to draw him out and has an excellent sense of how to collect her material into a compelling whole . after the screening i got a chance to talk with yu , and she told me that o'brien has had the most wonderful thing happen to him . yu said that she is working now on the possibility of turning o'brien's story into a full length drama and has a studio interested . the most recent work of hers to get wide distribution is an hour long documentary on civil war reenactors . finally , if you saw the academy awards , you will remember her from her acceptance speech where she mused her dress cost more than her film . almost . she said that her movie cost a little more than her gown , but less than just one of her earrings . breathing lessons runs a little under 40 minutes . the film is subtitled in english since about 10 percent of o'brien's speech can be difficult to understand . the film is not rated but might be pg-13 for the discussion of sex . it would be fine for kids say nine or ten and up to see . i recommend it to you and give it * * * . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
most films are complex amalgamations of characters , events , dialog , and all of the other aspects that go into film making . but not sour death balls . sour death balls , one of the first films yu ever made , boils the documentary art form down to its essence . without words and with pam tom's grainy black and white camera work done on a fixed mount , the audience has only the subjects to watch . there are no distractions . even the minimalist background looks more like the wallpaper for a computer screen desktop than a movie set . so what could be so charming ? big gumballs . but not just any gumballs , ones so sour that your eyes bulge out and your mouth tries to repel the invader . yu , who was there at the screening , told us that she was inspired by two daughters of a friend who had the foul tasting balls and were telling people to " put this in your mouth . " yu got the idea to go to a school and film the reactions of young kids as they try to suck on this awful substance . the results are indescribably funny . some children try to keep the ball in , no matter how painful . as in most jessica yu films , her choice of music sets a perfect pace . there are energetic trumpets that seem to burn with the same intensity as the nefarious balls . $50 for the film stock , and that was it . she has taken the short to over 50 international film festivals where it has been an audience favorite and garnered many awards . sometimes it takes simplicity to remind us of the magic of the motion picture medium and of how a straightforward idea can blossom into something wondrously delightful . sour death balls runs a little under 10 minutes . it is not rated , but would be g . the film should mesmerize those young and old . i recommend it to you and give it * * * . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
traveller is the realization of that dream and a perfect vehicle to showcase his acting skills . bill paxton is a hard working actor who has had parts in almost fifty movies . although he has only recently been able to receive star billing , as he did in twister , he , nevertheless , generally raises the quality of any movie with which he is associated . his role in one false move and in aliens are the first ones that brought his talents to my attention . since then i have seen him in numerous pictures with his small role in the last supper being my most recent favorite . the movie travellers is a character study set within the context of this semi-mythical group . to what extent this group really exists in the united states is unclear , but the accuracy of the story has no bearing on the movie's appeal . ) gammon plays a grizzled guy who looks like a skid row bum . gammon , who has played small parts in over fifty films , gives a carefully understated performance , as does the rest of the cast . traveller moves slowly , but never drags . it just takes its time . actually , none of that is important . this is a story not about what happens but about the characters themselves and with paxton's marvelous performance , a story worth paying attention to . cinematographer jack green from the bridges of madison county takes his first hand at directing in traveller as well as doing the cinematography -- both are easy going . nothing harsh , well not much anyway . wiener has this sweet and innocent smile and twinkling eyes that make her part compelling without many spoken lines . the honky-tonk music of the film is pure fun . producer paxton describes the music as a variety of styles of the type you would hear on your radio while driving through the south . his old friend seymour stein , a record producer , liked the raw film footage so much that he arranged to have a bunch of great young acts record the songs for the movie . the result adds energy , poignancy , and humor to the picture . come on in and sit a spell , for traveller is a slow moving but entertaining yarn . without any special effects or computer enhancements , the movie contents itself with weaving a tale full of characters worth caring about . a small picture certainly , but a delightful one . it is rated r for sexual situations , language and a couple of violent scenes . the film would be fine for teenagers , but not any younger . i recommend this simple story to you and give it * * * . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
so how many of the ten commandments have you violated today ? but have you ever felt the need to break them all ? who among us hasn't blamed god for some misfortune that has befallen us . " i am not crazy , " seth tells us . " i know the difference between bad luck and divine inspiration . " some of us have had bad days , but seth's problems are much more cataclysmic . afterall , the story has it all -- " death , sex , and god . " writer and director daniel taplitz's intelligent script starts as a broadly written black comedy , but by the end he has subtly transformed the story into a poignant drama . his rich characters are worth the audience's attention , and the compelling acting by the three leads , courteney cox plays harry's wife rachel , draw us into the story . most plots are rehashes of some other story , but the commandments is fresh and surprising throughout . the way the script sets up the circumstances , each becomes an interesting vignette . some , such as bearing false witness , are handled quite imaginatively . the genuine chemistry that builds between seth and rachel becomes the best subplot in the film . ( " am i a commandment to be broken ? " very erotic , but with almost no nudity , their romance comes alive with just a few scenes . the show builds to its chief conundrum -- how will the hardest commandment , murder , be broken . i will give no hints . " if you were murdered , how would that make you feel ? " a strangely satisfying show , that has to be experienced to be appreciated . my wife and i view this as a little gem of a picture . the film is rated r for non-explicit sex , brief nudity , and a little violence . commandments would be fine for teenagers . i recommend this funny and ultimately touching story to you and give it * * * . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . review written on : may 2 , 1997 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
addicted to love is a fresh and surprisingly good , romantic comedy by actor griffin dunne in his first time as a director of a feature length film . sam , played by matthew broderick in a role somewhat reminiscent of his character in infinity , is an astronomer with a big heart . well , as you can imagine , humans are much less predictable than celestial bodies . ryan , who is one of the most talented actresses working today , is probably most enjoyable in her funny parts , but , to be honest , it is in her serious roles as in courage under fire and , one of my personal favorites , when a man loves a woman that her greatness shows best . all of this notwithstanding , she is terrific in addicted to love . ryan is given some great dialog and hurls sexual insults at sam as well as the absent anton . the intelligent script makes the inevitable enjoyable anyway because the characters created are so incredibly likable and interesting . you want them to fall in love and do not care if it is clearly preordained . several key decisions were made that make the film work so well . broderick , in a recent interview , said that he felt awkward playing a role that director dunne could have played himself . while true , the casting remains perfect as is . broderick has the good sense to let ryan set the rhythm for their interactions and roll with the punches . easily , the most intriguing and innovative aspect of the movie is sam's use of a camera obscura to project linda and anton's images into sam and maggie's hiding place . this delicious plot device is milked for everything it is worth . addicted to love is a sweet show , even in its blackest moments . it posses a high spirited energy and a perfect sense of timing that never loses the audience's attention . only in the needlessly slapstick body cast scenes does the movie ever bog down . an intelligent picture that leaves you enchanted and delighted as you leave the theater . i found myself bursting into song in the parking lot for reasons unknown . good movies can cause such strange reactions . it is rated r for sexual humor and some profanity . the show would be fine for any teenager . don't miss this little jewel of a movie . it earns * * * from me , and i almost gave it even more . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . review written on : may 20 , 1997 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
it's " the american west in 1905 , " and although horseless carriages are intruding upon the pristine landscape , the cowboy legends remain fresh and vivid . in 1994 disney cast some big stars and a top flight crew , including director jeremiah s . chechik ( benny & joon ) , to make the highly imaginative , live action film tall tale . why it did poorly at the box office isn't clear because it is an excellent film . most other movies for kids are ready to accept mediocrity . there are so few kids' movies produced , perhaps the studios figure that spending too much money and effort on them is a waste . with such a paucity of product , the young consumers will flock to see them regardless of the quality . i will not give daniel's story away . better to have him tell it . early on in the picture , nature's grandeur engulfs the screen . the cinematography by academy award winning cinematographer janusz kaminski ( schindler's list ) creates so many images of tremendous natural beauty that they almost take your breath away . ( " kind of all makes it worthwhile , don't you think ? " the sweeping musical score is by randy edelman , who did one of my all-time favorite movie scores , the one for gettysburg . the script by steven bloom ( james and the giant peach ) and robert rodat ( fly away home ) is a lot of fun . a beautiful mixture of the mythical story of a tall tale laced with broad humor . the script has just enough pathos to counterbalance the lighter parts . ( " as far as pa is concerned , i never do nothing right , " laments daniel to john henry . the story teaches , not preaches , good values . still it does make tracking pecos easier . tall tale is a child's story told with imagination and good acting . a well developed story that enchants its viewers , young and old . it is rated pg for mild and cartoonish violence . the only two potentially scary parts are when daniel appears about to be crushed or cut in two . for that reason , kids under 5 might be frightened . my son jeffrey , age 8 , likes the picture " a whole lot . " his absolute favorite character was pecos bill , but he was disappointed that they did not cast a larger actor for the paul bunyan role , which is a good point . i recommend the movie to you and your family and give it * * * . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . review written on : may 24 , 1997 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
its title , female perversions , almost guarantees that most people will write off the film as a soft porn exploitation flick . those who do see it for cheap thrills will probably be disappointed . but those viewers expecting thought provoking material , will not be . although the film opened to uniformly good reviews , first-time director susan streitfeld had difficulty obtaining financing for it . eve's bravado will likely shock many viewers . to reinforce this notion are numerous sayings written on everything from pillow embroidery to billboard signs . ( " nothing about you is genuine . her image is quite a contrast to eve's tight fitting professional image with her suits , pancake makeup , and bright lipstick . madelyn is a kleptomaniac -- " i steal to stop me from killing myself " -- who is about to defend her ph . d . this complex and troubling show , which covers much wider territory that it might seem , ends abruptly . the confusion left in the viewer's mind appears intentional . a richly textured movie that demands a second viewing to comprehend it all . but the film has such intensity that most will be reluctant to sit through it again . still , the journey the picture takes you on is enlightening . it is rated r for full frontal male and female nudity , explicit sexual acts , two self mutilation scenes and strong language . i think the film should have been rated nc-17 , and i do not think it is appropriate for teenagers . i recommend the film to adults willing to explore troubling ground and give the movie * * * . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . review written on : may 30 , 1997 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
" well , my name is ken sherry , and i stopped the world and got off in sunray . " sunray , australia with its dried up grass and small , dusty streets looks more like small town america than small town america . ken's rocky face , sad and droopy eyes , and melancholy demeanor , makes a deep imprint even before the deep tones come out of his throat . first-time movie writer and director shirley barrett teams up with three talented leads to give the world a wry and intelligent comedy and character study . winner of the camera d'or at the 1996 cannes film festival , love serenade weaves a story that is romantic , funny , quirky , and poignant . the film is as hard to pigeonhole as it is to guess how it will be wrapped up . although the ending is what people may talk about , it is character development that makes the story compelling . what is especially challenging and successful about love serenade is the way barrett takes three quite different characters and gives them equal weight . most first-time filmmakers can barely do one character right . if they spread themselves and their characters too thin , they create none with any depth , as in another recent and much less successful film by another first-time australian director , love and other catastrophes . ever confident vicki-ann , who works as a beautician , is a natty and colorful dresser with complete make-up always in place . her striving for perfection in clothes and coiffure makes her love making especially awkward . dimity , played by miranda otto in the most interesting and funniest performance of the film , has almost no self-confidence . her hangdog look makes her look as unattractive as her sister looks overly made-up . she lacks all of the confidence that vicki-ann radiates . towards the end , the show turns bittersweet , but it is in the story leading up to the end that the picture has its strengths . any one of the three characters would have been interesting enough for most pictures . love serenade is a subtle comedy without many big laughs , but with three touching performances . it is rated r for brief nudity and sex . the show would be fine for any teenager . i recommend this quirky film to you and give it * * * . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
she does have a couple of romantic flings , but the focus of her story , as told in a marvelous and insightful narration by judd , is independence via work . since it is the off season , people are cutting back , not hiring . mitchum gives a good reading of the local rich kid who uses people . judd's performance is the centerpiece of the film . her sincere and calm approach to the character makes ruby compelling without ever being showy or boastful . judd's eyes are sometimes fixed and piercing and at others , rapidly scanning characters to size them up . in another twist , their romance is as sporadic as it is successful , from ruby's perspective . in a show where the main criticism is that , as in life , it sometimes drags , tragedy does eventually occur . most scripts would have the character go through a metamorphosis when under such stress , but not nunez's . ruby uses her same convictions to get her through it and treats it as just another one of the speed bumps of life . the naturally poetic script has ruby confessing toward the end that , " i heard that hell is when all your dreams come true . " she always has a another dream , albeit usually a modest one . it is rated r for sex and brief nudity . the show would be fine for teenagers and they would benefit from seeing a upbeat show with such a positive and subtlety delivered message . i recommend the movie to you and give it * * * . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . review written on : june 20 , 1997 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
while on vacation we decided to check out some of the disney movies that we missed at the theaters . the top on our list was the 1992 picture aladdin , disney's loose retelling of the story of aladdin and his magic lamp . in a movie filled with academy award winning music ( alan menken ) but mediocre songs ( alan menken , howard ashman , tim rice ) , a couple of the most forgettable songs occur in the beginning . the film has two distinct parts -- let's call them bg and ag -- before the genie , played with tremendous comedic gusto by robin williams , appears and after . ( the rich always have it rough in the movies . ) aladdin ends up with the magic lamp and accidentally summons the genie ( voice by -- drum roll -- robin williams ) . after half an hour , bg is finally over , and we enter the dramatically more interesting ag period . during ag , the show bursts with all of the energy it lacked in bg . williams does his shtick as only he can . the disney animators follow along creating images of equal intensity to his routine , right down to a neon sign that says " applause " at the end of one of his numbers . one could make a cogent argument that this vaudeville routine has no place in a story about aladdin , but who cares , it is extremely funny . and the first rule of a comedy , especially a cartoon , is that , if it is funny , go with it and don't worry too much about logic . williams , for the many adults in the audience , even includes some fun impersonations of other actors like jack nicholson . again , it doesn't make any sense , but it's funny . disney animators show off their talents in many ways . the regal movie uses a palette of colors worthy of the arabian nights . watch especially how well the animators can imbue human life and motion into animals and normally inanimate objects . the magic carpet is a perfect example . they give a real personality to what otherwise looks like just a high quality throw rug . almost as a byproduct , the story teaches some nice moral lessons , but the script by ron clements , ted elliott , john musker , and terry rossio puts all of its creativity into the humor . the result is a satisfying film that will keep the whole family laughing . it is rated g and would be fine for all ages with the possible exception of a brief snake scene . my son jeffrey , age 8 , thought the show was " very good , " but when pressed for a comparison with one of his favorite disney films , the lion king , he said he liked the lion king better , and i agree . i recommend aladdin to you and give it * * * . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . review written on : june 29 , 1997 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
told with heavy narration , the film possesses a realistic nostalgia blended with the magic of youthful dreams and tribulations . the movie's director is david mickey evans , who wrote the script with robert gunter , and together they have created a show that has the essence of truth as if in a biography but with the liberties of a coming of age comedy . the game never ends , they don't keep score and there are no sides . they play for the pure exhilaration of the sport , which they all worship . the adults in the picture have quite brief , but important roles . ( perhaps the reason i like the story so much is that smalls's baseball ability or lack thereof reminds me so much of myself when i was his age . balls would fly past me , going under my legs or over my head but rarely into my glove . " actually it was an a- , but it should have been a b . " the insults in the movie are true to form for fifth graders without trying to shock the audience . when a bunch of kids so rich that they can afford uniforms show up on their shiny new bikes , the insults fly fast and furiously . " and that's the way you like it . " wow , is that an insult or what ? chester kaczenski's sets are so perfect as to be totally unrealistic but great for nostalgia . the wide lawns are manicured to perfection , and there is not a scratch on anything except for the sandlot area which is in a genteel state of disrepair . perhaps it is different now , but then girls were something that fifth grade boys ogled and dreamed about , but rarely had the courage to do more than flirt with . so it is with the sandlot boys . the show's great ensemble cast of unknowns is at its best in the finale . seen only in glimpses until the end , its roar and reputation are awesome . the well paced and compelling ending shows how inventive grade-schoolers can be at solving tough problems . and how courage is sometimes essential . i thought i had the conclusion guessed , but i was surprised . the sandlot runs a breezy 1 : 41 . it is rated pg for some 1962 style fifth grade profanity and for the scary scenes of " the beast . " my son jeffrey , age 8 , had mixed feeling about the movie . overall , he found the show was " kind of boring , kind of exciting , and kind of scary . " still i think kids around 9 and up will love the picture . even jeffrey wanted to go back and see his favorite parts again -- the swimming pool scene and the long ending . i recommend the film to you and give it * * * . i came close to awarding it even more . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . review written on : june 30 , 1997 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
it magnifies your inner desires . after avoiding carrey for years , i was blown away by his performance in liar , liar -- one of this year's funniest films . since the mask in 1994 was the movie that really launched his film career , i suggested we check it out one evening on vacation . with the help of realistic and colorful special effects , carrey , as the mask , struts his stuff non-stop . " you have to ask yourself a question , " he warns with a soft clint eastwood voice . " do i feel lucky ? " ha nguyen's stream of elaborate costumes for the mask sets the tone for all of the mask's emotions . in a highly imaginative film , the only surprise is how slowly director chuck russell paces the non-mask scenes . although it never got the belly laughs out of me that liar , liar did , the mask delivers some well choreographed numbers and displays carrey's talents well . still , i must confess that my favorite character in the film was not stanley , but milo , his little pooch . why cute animals like max , who plays milo , do not get more acting roles in the movies remains a mystery . it is rated pg-13 for some cartoonish violence and some profanity . most of it is so mild that the film should be fine for kids around 7 and up . my son jeffrey , age 8 , thought the show was " really good and funny . " i recommend the picture to you and give it * * * . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
contact is director robert zemeckis's latest and most ambitious production ever , tackling nothing less than the question of whether we are alone in the universe , as well as whether there is a god , and whether it matters what your opinion is on the subject . in short , the film's credentials are impeccable . few films glorify the unknown and relish ambiguity to the extent that contact does . it even dares to pose many more questions that it ever attempts to answer . most audiences , including the one at my press screening , have applauded at the film's conclusion . still , some viewers will undoubtedly walk out complaining . more than that i cannot say about the ending without revealing key aspects of the story's resolution . although rated pg , this cerebral film will probably bore younger kids for whom it is also inappropriate . jodie foster , who has given few mediocre performances in her career , stretches herself with this one . foster , who has tough down pat , usually has trouble looking vulnerable . with her pony tale , glasses , and make-up ellie usually looks like a harmless , but attractive nerd . when the inevitable call from space comes , zemeckis stages it so that ellie is away from the command center . easily , the best part of the show is not the acting but the science . how an alien civilization chooses to communicate is certain to fascinate everyone , especially those of us with backgrounds in the language chosen -- mathematics . only a highly imaginative script would dream it up and complement it with a plausible explanation . he has seen enough science fiction movies to know that aliens mean destruction . in the past , matthew mcconaughey's skills as an actor have revolved around his ability to look pretty while delivering his lines in a haughty manner with a whispery enunciation . his bland performance in contact as palmer joss , a " man of the cloth without the cloth , " is consistent with the rest of his career . his character and the whole pseudo-religious babble of the story should have been eliminated . the movie even has rob lowe , of all people , show up as a ridiculous christian theologian named richard rank , an obvious put-down of ralph reed of the christian coalition . the script has the good sense to include some humor to accompany the picture's seriousness . " that's sure going to change the miss universe contest ! " who decides who will be the lone astronaut is another of the film's conundrums . in perhaps its least believable part , the panel includes a theologian . contact drags frequently and runs too long at 2 : 30 . it is rated pg , but kids will probably need to be 9 or 10 to appreciate it . i recommend this highly inventive film to you and give it * * * . a version without the pseudo-religious aspects and without mcconaughey would have earned a higher rating in my book . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
yes , it's the hit of the summer , men in black , which is everything that last year's mars attacks ! should have been , but wasn't . don't be surprised if you haven't heard of division 6 of the immigration and naturalization services , neither have any of the " normal " agents of the ins in this film . the following may come as a shock to you , it did to james edwards , so you may want to sit down . but then there are those few renegades and misfits . ( personally , i would not be scared if i knew that creatures looking like members of the star wars cantina , but more gooey , were infesting our planet . but you might panic . ) rich baker's work designing the aliens certainly deserves oscar consideration for his mixture of silliness and function -- sort of a retro science fiction look for the 90s . mary e . vogt's costumes for the agents , think 60s james bond suave with tapered suits , thin ties , and plain ray ban sunglasses -- all in black , provide the perfect complement to the aliens' kookiness . ed solomon's script has a stream of gags , most of which work , thanks to barry sonnenfeld's direction . j is shown a wall of television screens which are used to monitor such aliens as sylvester stallone , steven spielberg , newt gingrich , and others . perhaps the most instructive is that we learn that division 6 uses the hot sheets , you know them as the tabloids , as research material . the sincerity with which the actors approach their material makes the movie . while posing as an fbi agent , k explains in no uncertain terms that , " we here at the fbi , do not have a sense of humor we are aware of . " men in black is one of the few films that would be better if it were longer . editor jim miller has simply chopped too much . the resulting movie feels like they were scared that we would grow tired if shown too much of it , so they trimmed out every non-essential scene . the result is a story that jerks along as if key scenes are missing . oh yes , along the way there is the outline of a plot . still , you are likely to have trouble following the plot even if you take good notes . much better to sit back and enjoy such morsels as edgar's . " you're coming with me , " he informs her . " it's a long trip . i'll need a snack . " it is rated pg-13 for some mild profanities and sci-fi violence . the film should be fine for most kids around 8 and up . my son jeffrey , age 8 , got pretty scared and even talked about leaving at times , but ended up liking the show . i thought the show was funny and imaginative so i am recommending it and giving it * * * . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
there is a scene in face/off when all hell breaks loose and both sides are shooting so fast that it looks like rival fireworks vendors in a turf war . in the midst of this gotterdammerung , john travolta and nicolas cage face each other in their big showdown like a shoot out at the ok corral . only hong kong action director extraordinaire john woo would choose to set this pyrotechnic ballet to a version of judy garland's " somewhere over the rainbow . " woo , who directed travolta last year in the exciting broken arrow , puts a unique stamp on his films . his mastery of the slow motion action sequence is unrivaled . the two leads of the film rise to the challenges of their parts and clearly relish the immense complexities and opportunities of their roles . his matched pair of big golden guns are used to do some shooting worthy of the best westerns . whenever sean and castor get near each other , woo stages another beautiful and imaginative action sequence . oliver wood's cinematography uses the explosions to give the film the awe of a fourth of july spectacular . the special effects for the operation are reasonably simple , but quite well done . the intelligent script by mike werb and michael colleary manages to make this preposterous experiment in biological engineering plausible . never in the film did the suspension of disbelief become a problem . there are both superb at it , but travolta does the better job of the two and clearly has more fun at it . the effective chemistry between the two actors provides a charged atmosphere that seems perpetually on the verge of explosion . joan allen ( the crucible ) , who has the frail and homely look so atypical to most actresses , gives a convincingly confused and frightened performance as eve . after a perfect ending scene of check , but who has the checkmate , woo blows it by tacking on several more endings . the most elaborate is an exhausting speedboat demolition derby and pyrotechnic extravaganza . after a well paced show , the extra conclusions subtract quite a bit from the film's rhythm and effectiveness . remember , he is the bad guy . face/off runs way too long at 2 : 20 . it is rated r for violence and language . most of the violence is cartoonish , but there are two scenes that will cause the squeamish to look away for a few seconds . the film should be fine for and will be enjoyed immensely by teenagers . i recommend the show to you and give it * * * . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
it is no wonder that the disney executives are scratching their collectives heads over the disappointing performance of their big animated movie of the summer . whereas their last two and much more financially successful summer movies , pocahontas and the hunchback of notre dame , featured unlikely cartoon heroes , their latest has a star straight from central casting . since we live in an age of superheroes and action figures , what better place to look for material than the gods of greek mythology ? and what better choice for the protagonist than that guy with bulging pecs , hercules ? surely , the executives must have reasoned , the kids will flock to hercules in droves and come back to see it again and again . why this has not transpired as anticipated is unclear . perhaps there is something lacking in the implementation of the idea , but more likely it has to do with the picture's competition and with the obsession of this summer's audiences for the action blockbuster of the week . for whatever reason , the film is much better than its box office receipts indicate , and worth a visit if you have not seen it yet . like most disney movies , the script by john musker , ron clements , bob shaw , don mcenery and irene mecchi , plays fast and loose with the traditional story so as to extract the maximum number of laughs and to pack a lot of mythology into an hour and a half . hercules , as voiced by tate donovan and as drawn by british illustrator gerald scarfe , is arguably not the most interesting character in the film . much better is hades , and even better still is meg ( megara ) , voice by susan egan . ( " my friends call me meg , that is if i had any friends . " ) meg's confidence and smart mouth makes many good lines come off like jewels . hercules and some of the other characters are drawn with strange and awkward proportions , especially the feet . hercules's , in particular , are half again too large . gerald scarfe's drawing style becomes one of the movie's low points . hades has red or blue fire shooting out of his head depending on his mood , and meg has provocative bangs and a slightly revealing gown . as in most disney creations , comical sidekicks abound . hercules rides on pegasus , " a magnificent horse with the brain of a bird . " the best jokes , and the film needs even more , come from its self-deprecating humor . there are even fancy hercules stores and airherc sandals . " i'm an action figure ! " they succeeded admirably and delightfully . more families should skip one of those homogenous action flicks one week and see hercules instead . that way they could laugh with the film rather than at it . it is correctly rated g and is fine for all ages . my son jeffrey , age 8 , and his friend alan , also 8 , both thought the movie was " really good . " they both said they liked it much better than the hunchback of notre dame and even better than the lion king . i recommend the picture to you and your whole family and give it * * * . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
once upon a time , kids had a saturday ritual as certain as the rising sun . and one of the more popular serials was the 15 episode batman and robin . i found a double tape that contained a good copy of all 15 episodes of the black-and-white batman and robin serial from 1949 . although i was worried my son would pooh-pooh it for being old fashioned , he fell in love with its hokeyness . batman and robin challenges the assumptions of today's viewers . to say the show has special effects is almost a misnomer . there are boxes with knobs that twirl and lights that blink , and there are a few simple flash explosions , but little more . the whole series seems to have been put together cheaply and quickly , which is not to say that watching cannot be a lot of fun . to best understand the sophistication of the movie's technology , consider two fundamental components of the batman apparatus , the calling signal and the batmobile . in batman and robin a simple 12 inch television set with its cover removed is used as the projection device , and , miracle of miracles , it is even powerful enough to work in broad daylight ! a standard convertible from that era with not a gadget in sight . none of the actors in the film ever had any big movie parts , but this little serial forms a nice legacy nevertheless , ready to be enjoyed by generations who have to have this whole serial concept explained to them . viewers of the tape may feel the same way , but they do not have to wait a week as the original viewers did . the serial is not rated , but would be a solid g and perfect for all ages . my son jeffrey , age 8 , thought the picture was " great , " and the actor who played batman was " funny and cool . " clearly , he reasoned , this could not be possible . i recommend this piece of nostalgia to you and give it * * * . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
" folks don't laugh [at you] when you have a grand in your back pocket , " reckons gaz , a working-class bloke living on the dole in yorkshire . british audiences may know the term " full monty , " but americans probably will not . the closest american slang might be " buck naked , " and where either term comes from remains a mystery . the film's title , the full monty , refers to gaz's crazy idea . there is , however , a slight problem of talent and looks . one can reasonably view the film as a social satire , but that would be taking director peter cattaneo's comedy way too seriously . still , one of the show failings is that sometimes it cannot figure out what it wants to be and lets it morose aspects dominate at inappropriate moments . first-time screenwriter simon beaufoy's script has rough edges that need working out , but the overall feel is of a writer with much promise . the film opens with arguably the funniest scene in the picture . the music is so relentlessly upbeat that i thought we were going to see a pseudo-documentary a la the much more hilarious waiting for guffman . tragic scenes like this work but only to the detriment of the film's comedic effect , and they would have been better placed in a more serious film . although it is an ensemble cast , carlyle's role is so central that without his strong but vulnerable portrayal , the picture could easily have sunk . these auditions are among the show's funniest sequences . some guys are overweight and others are painfully skinny . one guy shows up who can't sing or dance , but who does have an incredible large male organ -- which is stared at in disbelief but not shown . until the very end , it is still not clear if some , all , or none of them will actually bare it all . you may even find the ending a bit of a surprise . with a subtext of desperation and anti-thatcherism , the film tries too hard to deliver a message , but it remains quite funny nevertheless . the full monty runs a breezy 1 : 30 . it is in english so thick with yorkshire accents and slang that american audiences are doomed to miss parts of it but not enough to detract from the film's comedic punch . the movie is rated r for one scene of male nudity and for some profanity , and it would be fine for teenagers . i recommend this sometimes too bittersweet comedy to you and give it * * * . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
but there is a tiny problem . written by arleen sorkin , and paul slansky and glenn gordon caron , the script of picture perfect takes the typical romantic comedy formula and puts enough spin on it to make it fresh . the intelligent dialog has plenty of funny one-liners , but the film's beauty revolves around the effective character development of the lead . kate's would-be lovers and her challenges at work make for an involving tapestry . as directed by glenn gordon caron , the director of the excellent but relatively unknown clean and sober , the film focuses everything on kate and lets her set the show's pacing . with her terrific looks , her happy and vivacious demeanor and her tenacity , aniston gives a compelling performance as a hyperactive career woman , while making kate an incredibly likable character . " i feel like i can be honest with you , " says the guy as he is being shown the door . darcy is the one who devises the fake picture stratagem . how that plays out makes up the last half of the film . toward the end the story turns bittersweet . the inevitable scene where kate tells the truth is clumsily written and delivered . the ending itself is exactly what you would expect from a typical romantic comedy . one would have wished that the writers could have come up with something fresher . a hard edged surprise ending would have been better but would probably have been dropped after the first test screening . even if the ending is a disappointment , kate is a fun person to hang out with for a couple of hours . picture perfect runs 1 : 45 . it is rated pg-13 for sexual situations and language . the film would be fine for kids around twelve and up . i recommend the film to you and give it * * * . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
in shall we dance , writer and director masayuki suo fashions a tale of intricate beauty , full of romance and comedy . although it is a descendant of the fred astaire and ginger rogers movies as well as the more recent strictly ballroom , the movie takes an approach so fresh and charming that it is easy to forget the formula roots of its plot . more than just a romantic comedy , it is a film of self-awakening and self-actualization . " i'm tired of you and your one-trick rumba , " complains one . none are better than his ritualistic approach to the urinal . rather than giving up , he redoubles his efforts , but they start shifting more to dance and less to mai . although nominally about dancing , the script contains so many gems of universal wisdom that , like sun tzu's " the art of war , " it could be used as a guide for success in business . " a weak first step transmits nothing , " advises mai to sugiyama . feel the music and dance for sheer joy . " along the way are many more self-revelations for sugiyama and preparation for the big dance is secondary . " at my age , " he confesses to mai , " it's embarrassing to say , but each day i feel so alive . " each moment in the picture has the lead character falling deeper and deeper under a spell . how this spell is finally broken comes as something of a surprise , but the film itself will leave a lasting spell on the audience . it is almost impossible to leave the theater without a song in your heart . they may take off without your ever realizing it . shall we dance runs 2 : 03 but feels shorter . it is in japanese with english subtitles and is rated pg for a couple of mild profanities . the film would be acceptable for all ages , but a kid would probably have to be around nine to enjoy it . i loved this sweet and uplifting little film so i recommend it to you and give it * * * . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
this nameless dog -- judd only gives his dogs numbers -- has been christened shiloh by marty , and the animal has won marty's heart . first-time writer and director dale rosenbloom's film shiloh garnered rave reviews when it was released earlier this year . as a film critic , i understand the marketing of non-family films -- i can't say adult films since the pornography industry has absconded with that moniker -- but the marketing and distribution of family films continues to baffle me . with mediocre products such as that darn cat , a simple wish and gone fishin' getting a wide distribution , why couldn't they have promoted an intelligent family film ? doesn't quality count for something ? shiloh is a richly textured film populated with completely believable family and friends . it even has a villain worth hating and yet sympathetic too . shiloh has a metronome for a tail , a sweet , slobbery tongue , big soulful eyes , playfully floppy ears and an intense loyalty . the fatal flaw , of course , is that judd has no intention of ever parting with the dog , regardless of the price . in less capable hands than rosenbloom's the film could easily have dissolved into maudlin cliches . the smartly written script makes for a warm hearted and realistic tale . typical of the film's strengths are the depths of the supporting cast . michael moriarty plays marty's father as a stubborn and controlling parent , but one with a sweetness just below the surface . the battles between the parents , both on and off screen , avoids the overacting usually found in disagreements among parents in films . the script is full of homilies inserted so naturally that you don't realize they are present . " sometimes the biggest test of love is how much you're willing to fight for it , " says the doc . cinematographer frank byers shot the film in warm nostalgic shades of browns and golds . amy b . ancona's sets are evocative without ever being overloaded with gaudy country nicknacks . and joel goldsmith's music has a wonderful dreaminess to it . the film has a long and completely plausible resolution of the conflict , but it seems at first to lack the tension needed to make it compelling . the result is a completely satisfying picture with a touching little story , nicely resolved . shiloh runs just 1 : 33 . it is rated pg for mild violence . the show would be excellent for kids six and up . my son jeffrey , age 8 , liked the film " very much , " but added that it would not make his best of the year list . i recommend this fine film to your family and give it * * * . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
remakes , even faithful ones , are so often such pale imitations of the original that they become little more that frustrating substitutes for the genuine article . 12 angry men from 1957 is the most insightful film ever made about serving on a jury . ( the 1957 version was itself a remake , see my previous review , of a 1954 studio one production , but that piece of cinematic trivia remains unknown to all but the most avid movie fans . ) the great director sidney lumet directed the 1957 version and the star-studded cast included such luminaries as henry fonda , lee j . cobb , ed begley , e . g . marshall , jack warden , and jack klugman . the 1997 remake produced by mgm and released on the showtime cable network has itself a superlative cast . in 12 angry men , his old talent shines through , but even so his performance is not in the same league as fonda's or robert cummings's , who played the part in 1954 . " it's one of those open and shut things , " points out george c . scott's character . but crying out as the lone voice of compassion , lemmon pleads , " suppose we're wrong . " mykelti williamson , from forrest gump and con air , wanted to get the part to show how universal racism can be . williamson even personally designed the role so that his character was a ex-member of the nation of islam . although not fully explained , apparently his character was too racist for the black muslims . " i've lived among them all my life , " declares williamson's venomous character about the defendant and his race . his hate is complete and unadulterated by reason or any semblance of empathy . as the story unfolds , the sure and certain facts from the courtroom turn out to be anything but . some , of course , resist mightily . " don't give me those facts , " complains williamson's character . " i'm sick and tired of facts . " although mcdonnell is a fine actor , her brief appearance smacks of tokenism . these serve no purpose and are unable to make a highly relevant story any more so . the conclusion is inevitable , but , even if you've seen the 1957 version , this remake is worth viewing for the strength of the script and the fine performances . every juror's vote change is a milestone along a hard climb . when they reach the summit , you may find yourself as emotionally drained as the jurors . it is not rated but would be pg or pg-13 for mature themes and a little profanity . the film would be fine for kids say nine and up who are interested in such serious subjects . i recommend the film to you and give it * * * . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
like its closest ancestor , the alien series , the new film mimic by writer and director guillermo del toro is as stunning visually as it is frightening . sorvino , who seemed incapable of playing anyone with an iq above 80 , proves that her talent is much broader than expected . her susan , while not near as tough as sigourney weaver's ripley , is quite strong even though she is vulnerable and scared . ( this is one of those good shows -- sling blade was another -- which will immediately be written off by many people as soon as the plot is described . afterall , not many moviegoers go to the entertainment section looking for a good cockroach film . ) the shadowy mood combined with the script's proper sense of timing -- the best monster movies delay our first complete view of the monster as long as possible -- yields a film that builds its terror properly . just as some of the sexiest films are those in which the people stay fully dressed but seem always on the verge of taking off their clothes , so it is with monster movies , the tease is the key . in the entire first hour of mimic , the monster , in the form of a shadowy figure of a man in a cloak , is seen only in glimpses . marco beltrami's eerie and foreboding music adds to the ever-present feeling that death is right around the corner . almost all of the story happens three years later , and -- you guessed it -- the judas breed did not die out , but instead mutated into something dastardly and human-sized . of course , at first we don't know that for sure . as in all horror films , people do stupid things . in fact the light of flickering bad florescent lights and low-wattage incandescent bulbs adds dramatically to the horrific ambiance . figures in the background are seen , but escape just before being noticed as the audience whispers a collective " look out ! " " can i eat it or will it eat me ? " it turns out is what those little critters are always thinking . and do our big bugs ever eat : children , pets , big beefy men , you name it . the fright , however , does not come from visual gore since most meals are savored off-screen . there is even a boy with a heightened sense of hearing who calls the big bug , " mr . funny shoes " for the sounds he makes . while the picture is certainly frightening , it is even more fascinating . mimic has just enough scientific underpinnings to make the story interesting and not seem too ridiculous . the ending , although predictable in its outcome , has several surprises that use almost plausible scientific theories . mimic is an aliens set in our time and with a terrific look that begs to be seen even though the potential for fright is ever-present . one thing is certain . after seeing it , you will look at street grates in a totally different way . it is rated r for terror and a little profanity . the show would be fine for teenagers who can handle horror flicks . i recommend the picture to you and give it * * * . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
imaginative director david fincher , who created last year's crime and terror masterpiece , seven , takes a completely different approach with the game . whereas seven was non-stop , in-your-face action and gore , the game is meticulously drawn with a pacing that is more subdued that one expects in a thriller . the carefully written script by john d . brancato , michael ferris , and andrew kevin walker uses the entire first hour to completely setup the plot . most thrillers would have gotten down to business and had the audience on the edge of their seats in the first fifteen minutes . although mainly a deficiency , this slow opening technique does heighten the film's psychological warfare with nicholas and by extension , the audience . the game is not a particularly violent film , but one that plays tricks with the mind . miss your numbers by a few pennies , and you're on the street . ( as an in-joke , the movie has crs used as the initials for a variety of clandestine businesses associated with the company . ) " think of it as a great vacation , except you don't go to it , it comes to you . " at this point the normally smug and confident nicholas can only guess what will happen . the best part of the story is that the audience also doesn't know either who is a crs employee and who isn't . just when you're sure you've got it figured out , you don't . the multi-part ending is easily the film's best part . although it is easy to convince oneself after the fact that you guessed it all along , the reality is that few people will be able guess half of the twists and turns in advance . although this is michael douglas's show , her more limited screen time is suitably confusing and intriguing . " i don't care about the money , " he declares , ready to risk it all . " i'm pulling back the curtain . the engrossed audience feels the same way . fincher ratchets up the tension in the last hour and redeems the picture's all too slow beginning . with harris savides's dark and brooding cinematography even the slow parts are never boring . after watching the game , we at least know the downside of making too much money -- it can be downright dangerous . it is rated r for profanity and psychological terror . the film would be fine for teenagers . i recommend the picture to you and give it * * * . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
the director purposely cast most of the leads to either be actors you've never heard of or actors playing against type . the film's one briefly comedic scene has pearce playing the role of the straight man . the audience loved it , probably because the humor was so unexpected . kevin spacey imbues any character he plays with an unidentifiable something special . arguably the best and worst part of the film version is the surfeit of characters . while this probably worked well in the book and while it gives the story the feel of an epic , it can sometimes be frustrating to follow . most of the characters are surprising well developed , thanks to the almost 2 1/2 hour length , but there remain quite a few who are only sketched and who should have been left out entirely . as he talks to the audience , his typewriter provides the rhythm . the latter mystery occupies most of the story . as a mystery it isn't much , but the director manages to elicit such good performances out of his cast and to create such a fascinating world that the picture compels despite its limitations . a side story has a group of " high-class whores cut to look like movie stars . " david strathairn in one of his least interesting roles plays pierce patchett , the rich man who runs this expensive call-girl ring . actually , call-boy too , as it turns out . the well choreographed ending takes the canonical big shoot out and manages to stage it in fresh and imaginative ways . there are no surprises about who dies , but the ingenuity of the good cops and the director's perfect timing combine to produce the best scene in the movie . although it is easy to envision a trimmer and better l . a . confidential , this sometimes bloated one does not disappoint . it is rated r for violence , profanity , and brief nudity and would be fine for most teenagers . i recommend it to you and give it * * * . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
so long as the other side wasn't sure that their cache was bigger , they could be counted on not to fire first . but those cozy days of the great standoff are gone forever like the five-cent soda pop . emmy award winning television director mimi leder tries her hand at her first theatrical movie with powerful success , albeit after an uneven first half . the second half is consistently thrilling , so don't give up on it when it bogs down at first . all of this notwithstanding , her casting does add a bit of fun to the film . colonel devoe operates by schmoozing with his russian counterparts , especially general dimitri vertikoff , well acted in all too small a part by armin mueller-stahl . therein lies the problem in the film's first part . one minute it wants to be a typically unrealistic james bond clone , the next a hyper-accurate tom clancy film , and the next a serious meditation on the troubles in bosnia . every time the show gains momentum , the story switches to a slow moving bosnian episode . michael schiffer's clever script has the colonel calling the truck's cell phone and telling the driver that a bomb is on the way -- it isn't -- so that they can see which truck in the long convoy is carrying the bomb . it is the one making a fast exit . the audience is on the edge of its seats in the finale as our two heroes run frantically all over the city trying to find the villains who have the bomb . and when they do , the script again surprises by not using the standard cliche of " do we cut the red wire first or the green . " with a reworked beginning , the peacemaker could have been an outstanding picture rather than merely an entertaining one . even so , mimi leder's first theatrical film is well worth the price of admission . it is rated r for profanity and violence . the film would be fine for teenagers . i recommend the picture to you and give it * * * . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
sometimes even the slightest of comedies can come alive with the right talent . so it is with the matchmaker , an irish comedy staring janeane garofalo . and not since the truth about cats & dogs has she been given a part where she looks so appealing . in the latter film she wasn't supposed to be cute , but was and even outshone uma thurman . soon , however , the weather in this charming tale turns to bright , glorious sunshine . as dermot , the local matchmaker , milo o'shea gives a heartwarming performance . the story keeps cutting to a home video he is making extolling the virtues of matchmaking . as we learn in a ross perot-style pie chart presentation , the four ingredients of a good marriage are : love , sex , eating , and having a good laugh , with the latter having the largest slice . dermot's dead seriousness would work well on a late night infomercial . nothing like a third-degree burn to turn on the ladies . " it's so beautiful here , " marcy tells sean , " if it just had the new york times , it would be perfect . " the supporting cast would have come to nothing without garofalo . several times in the movie she delivers lines that should be no more than mildly funny , but which elicit huge belly laughs from the audience . with her self-assured and winsome ways , her charm bowls you over , which makes her acerbic wit all the more effective . the story frequently loses it way only to have some line or gesture from garofalo get it back on course . the writers use several nice plot twists to resolve the show's predicaments -- some of which are easy to guess and others aren't , but it doesn't matter . it is rated r for a few words of profanity , many of them with unfamiliar irish pronunciations , and the film would be fine for kids around 10 and up . i recommend this delightful picture to you and give it * * * . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . review written on : october 4 , 1997 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
just as it is most assuredly determined from birth whether one will like liver or not , so it is with actors and costume dramas . casting her as the female lead in a film version of another henry james novel , " washington square , " a role that won an oscar for olivia de havilland in 1949 , represents significant risk for washington square's director agnieszka holland . as in her most recent performance in a thousand acres , she makes a strategic error in washington square and underplays her part . all of the above notwithstanding , her performance , which remains central to the enjoyment of the film , is delightful even if sometimes strained . czech director holland approaches each film with a passion for detail . after catherine's mother has died in childbirth , the director manages to wait until the baby playing catherine has such a remarkably wise and soulful look that one feels the baby understands the tragedy . ( for the record , fat people can become and stay thin ones -- i , for one , did -- but it is not likely , and the story creates a visual discord by not explaining the transformation . ) catherine's costumes by anna sheppard , academy award nominee for schindler's list , make catherine look exceedingly plain and gawky . it is . morris , played with charm and panache by ben chaplin from the truth about cats & dogs , becomes the story's enigma . smith's delicate performance engenders a wave of giggles in the audience whenever she opens her mouth . " you'll have to excuse me , mr . townsend , " she explains . " i have a fortuitous headache . " jan a . p . kaczmarek's heavy violin music is as rich as the paneled rooms in which much of the action takes place . the lovely federalist houses there dot a richly textured urban landscape . when catherine's knees buckle from her first kiss by morris , her first beau , leigh manages to make it believable . never had the ungainly catherine expected such rapture . in a time of r-rated show-'em-everything sexuality , it is refreshing to visit a time when more was not necessarily better , and when a kiss was , well , a kiss . chapin's performance is as dead-on as finney's . " it is a perfectly fitting conclusion , " says catherine as the story begins to wrap up . " i like it very much . " i couldn't have said it better myself , and not being henry james , i'm not expected to . it is rated pg for adult themes . the film would be fine for any age , but those below ten would probably not be interested . i recommend the film to you and give it * * * . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . review written on : october 7 , 1997 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
errol morris is one of our most accomplished documentarians . fast , cheap , and out of control takes everything we know about the construction of a documentary and twists it around in fascinating ways . the prerequisite for a good documentary filmmaker is a knack for choosing the right subjects to interview , and all four of these look straight out of central casting . in a highly non-linear format , morris keeps the audio from one section going when he switches to the visual of another . most known for his collaboration with oliver stone , richardson's work was one of the best parts of stone's most recent film u-turn . " its all done from memory , " george says telling us his topiary secrets . " you know what an animal looks like , and you start making an animal . " perhaps because george has the only stationary animals in the story , i found this part the weakest link . better is the confident but ever cautious lion tamer . a funny guy , he explains the reason lion tamers point the four legs of a chair at the lion . everyone assumes , for example , that one needs stability to walk . the film's title comes from his proposal for massive numbers of small robots for scientific exploration . " if you analyze it too much , life becomes almost meaningless , " he says . his robots may have lifelike mannerisms , but they resemble nothing in nature with the possible exception of insects . their bodies of moving circuit boards are quite a contrast to the interspersed science fiction footage of man-like robots . my favorite part was ray's mole-rats . their kids live on a diet of soft feces , and the adults can control whether to emit the hard ones or the soft ones . it is rated pg and would be fine for kids five and up , but younger ones might be scared by the lions . i recommend the picture to you and give it * * * . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . review written on : october 9 , 1997 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
famous director costa-gavras has to date created a body of work with an underlying theme of tension and terror . from his academy award nominated direction of z to his more recent efforts including missing and music box , his films have a hard-edge that leaves moviegoers squirming uneasily in their seats . his most recent film , mad city , represents a change of pace . although the hostage situation might sound like his previous films , it isn't . partly a commentary on media excesses and partly a black comedy , the script skirts a fine line between the two , which could be considered its major weakness . had one or the other of them been more fully developed , it would have been a better movie . and in the latter case it would have been even more like broadcast news , the show it most closely resembles . the movie comes back again and again to the issue of crossed lines with the implication that the warring reporters cross it repeatedly in an attempt to improve their poll numbers . we flip back frequently to the men behind the scenes at the network who check poll numbers on everything from the newscasters' market share to sam's popularity . " you really shouldn't let a marketing slogan go your head , " retorts max . it is rated pg-13 for a few violent scenes , a couple of profanities and mature themes . the show would be fine for kids 10 and up although they probably need to be teenagers to be interested in the movie . i recommend the film to you and give it * * * . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
when he was starting out , he made many excellent but less controversial movies , including jagged edge and that perennial favorite , flashdance . before the house lights went down at the press screening for eszterhas's most recent film , telling lies in america , i read through the press kit . apparently this was supposed to be a touching little film about a teenage immigrant's experience growing up in america and was a " semi-auto-biographical tale . " by the time the house lights had come back up , i was surprised to have found that the film was exactly as billed . the story had many opportunities to get outlandish and rejected them all in favor of serious character development . although far from an outstanding film , the people in it will touch your heart . set in cleveland in the rock 'n roll year of 1960 , the movie tells the story of an itinerant disk jockey whose current pseudonym is billy magic . although bacon's charismatic performance dominates the film , brad renfro as karchy jonas gets more of the screen time . renfro and bacon worked together in last year's outstanding but underappreciated sleepers . renfro's serious character contrasts nicely with billy's flashy persona . even when the story saddens , as it does frequently , the high energy music of the era gives the story its hopeful underpinnings . " why you got to show off so much ? " in a revealing reply , he says it's " cause i ain't got that much to show . " the dialog , while rarely memorable , has a honesty that sounds like it was lifted straight from a time capsule . " have you done the nasty yet ? " karchy lies rather than reveal the truth . after seeing too many films lately in which none of the characters are drawn sympathetically , it is refreshing to have one in which they are all worth caring about . even if billy is conning everyone , you can't help but love him . it is rated pg-13 for sexual situations and some profanity . the film would be fine for kids twelve and up . 
although the disney conglomerate may be known more today for its theme parks , the heart of the organization , even if no longer the largest revenue generator , is the production of animated motion pictures . once a year , disney delights young and old alike with some colorful fantasy . and periodically , disney spruces up one of its old films , and rereleases the fresh print to the theaters . yes , the film is already available on video , but nothing compares with the experience of seeing the lush visuals on the big screen and hearing the wonderfully happy songs in a real theater . even if you've seen it before , it's well worth enjoying again . in disney's recent films , comedic antics ( aladdin ) , striking images ( the lion king ) , and serious messages ( the hunchback of notre dame ) have dominated . in contrast , the little mermaid harks back to a simpler time when disney made many films and cartoons in which the story took a backseat to the music . although the little mermaid explores many traditional themes , such as selling your soul to the devil , it never takes itself too seriously , contenting itself with being a feel-good musical . musicals are only as good as the songs and the singers , and , thanks to the academy award winning songs by alan menken and the film's talented cast , the little mermaid never disappoints . if you don't leave the theater humming , then you'd better check the adjustment on your hearing aid . the film is so infectiously happy that the only possible criticism could come from some scrooge who found the music too saccharine . benson's voice is like honey , and wright's has the richness of a caribbean lilt . " will you get your head out of the clouds and in the water where it belongs , " admonishes sebastian , triton's right-hand crustacean . as our toes are tapping -- careful not to make noise and disturb your fellow moviegoers -- the animators dazzle us with their choice of colors . down below , the palette is rich with the aquamarine colors of blues and greens with ariel's orangish red hair providing the perfect contrast . and the net result is a feast for the eyes and ears . it is rated g with only ursula's sneer being anything that might trouble the youngest viewers . 
bruce willis , one of our most uneven actors , gives a terrific performance this time as that shadowy figure known as the jackal . at first even the fbi is not sure whether the jackal is a real person or just a myth . with a new identity and look every five minutes in the picture , it is no wonder that the jackal has remained so elusive . although the new movie the jackal by rob roy's director michael caton-jones acknowledges kenneth roth's screenplay for the day of the jackal in the credits , it shares little of the story . as the sincere ex-ira hit man named declan mulqueen , richard gere manages to keep his irish accent consistent and believable . although gere slightly underplays an already underwritten role , he gives a quite credible performance . the problems with the movie almost undermine it on several occasions . the script heaps several unnecessary leaps of faith on the audience , most surrounding the lack of seriousness american law enforcement officers place on the threat of a major assassination . more than once , when a place should be crawling with cops , mulqueen has to go mano a mano with the jackal . and the well executed ending is flawed by an illogical rabbit pulled out of a hat . the director does not get the show's motor in gear for over half an hour . after he does , he lets it slip into neutral too often in the non-action scenes . in most thrillers , consider the television " prime suspect " dramas , for example , the police's planning scenes are full of tension and energy . in the jackal , by contrast , there is a certain ennui to the proceedings . all of this notwithstanding , whenever willis is on the screen , the movie hums . the writing is smart in the way the jackal creates his disguises and switches back and forth seamlessly . even though the assassination attempt is telegraphed from early on , its execution will undoubtedly send chills up your spine . at the jackal's best , as it is in the last half hour , the movie has you on the edge of your seat . the problem with the film is that too often you may find yourself slumped back in your chair during the frequent slow interludes . it is rated r for some profanity and a few gory scenes . it would be fine for teenagers . 
bill murray is a wonderful comic who has trouble picking decent scripts . at his best , as in groundhog day , his delicious brand of wry humor provides one delightful moment after another . but without the right material , as in larger than life and many other recent pictures of his , he tries to ham it up too much in order to make up for the film's lack of natural humor . in these latter movies , the result is bad slapstick . the man who knew too little , which bears no relationship to the man who knew too much , provides the perfect vehicle for murray's talents . clearly enjoying his part , murray takes this one-joke movie and milks the joke for all it's worth . although the hilarious groundhog day was a classic one-joke movie , comedies with a single idea are the hardest to sustain . nothing fazes wallace including a real mugging . with any actor other than murray , the audience would probably grow tired of the story within the first half hour . but his subtle and serious approach to the humor provides at least one big laugh every ten minutes and lots of little ones in-between . whalley , one of the most beautiful actresses working today , has talent that is rarely utilized effectively . even in bad films , such as trial by jury , she has managed to stand out . " do you think i look silly in this outfit ? " " i could take it off if you like . " the occasional sexual innuendo never gets much stronger than this , allowing director jon amiel to bring in the picture with just a pg rating . given that his last film was the excellent , but hard r picture , copycat , amiel shows more versatility than most directors . the man who knew too little is a film more to be savored in person than discussed after the fact . " but there's a downside . well , actually not , but one must keep up one's image . it is rated pg for language , innuendo , and comic violence . kids need to be ten to appreciate the humor but the film would be acceptable for those a bit younger as well . 
" it's like 'gone with the wind' on mescaline . " most critics have their least favorite genres . one of mine is the movie whose appeal derives solely from a string of extremely quirky characters . conversely , one of my favorites is the courtroom drama . the former genre is extremely prevalent whereas the latter has fallen somewhat out of favor . the few courtroom dramas that are released are all too often mediocre . since the film contains both a murder trial and a host of eccentric characters , i went in excited but with reservations . although the movie , directed by clint eastwood , is not as good as i'd hoped , it is a delicious satire on the south . as a native southerner , i found the accents true , the culture believable , and the jokes dead-on . the beauty of john lee hancock's script is the fine line he walks between realism and parody . although eastwood comments in the press notes on how impressed he was with the way hancock boiled a complex book down to its essence , more pruning still would have improved the final product . paul hipp , for example , plays an inconsequential character named joe odom , whose whole part could and should have been expunged . as john kelso , john cusack gives another great performance . unlike his wonderful acting in grosse pointe blank , where he provided the humor , in midnight in the garden of good and evil he spends his time in reaction shots . as one of the almost completely comical characters in the show , lady chablis plays herself . she gets some hilarious one-liners , and she has a gift for physical comedy that keeps the show from ever dragging when she is on the screen . ( " yes , i am nouveau riche , but it's the riche that counts . " ) he oozes charm and confidence from every pore . eastwood stages the scenes with such naturalness that you feel right at home . ah , the living is easy . there is a reason for this and for why he always carries a bottle of poison with him , but i will let you find out . and yes , there's a good reason for that one too . movie trials need good defense attorneys . and more . " you believe what you choose , and i'll believe what i know . " a film that revels in ambiguity , it is a delightful piece of entertainment even if not the major film that i expected . midnight in the garden of good and evil runs a little too long at 2 : 15 . it is rated r for some profanity , some violence , and mature themes . it would be fine for most teenagers . 
( the movie's modest title is john grisham's the rainmaker . ) here we get two , sort of . although not yet , or maybe ever , a real lawyer , he still chases ambulances with the best of them but has a heart of gold nevertheless . one could argue that damon's shallow acting in the movie reflects his character's legal abilities , but if damon had not had such a sterling supporting cast , his acting would have almost destroyed the movie . since screenwriter and director francis coppola makes extensive use of voice-over by damon , we get to hear large doses of his sad voice . elmer bernstein has loud violin's wailing and the flutes sobbing during these narrations to remind you how noble our young lawyer is . it is easy to listen to the pretentious soundtrack and convince yourself that rudy must be some modern-day gandhi . rudy , showing good taste if foolhardiness , falls in love with this client and goes way beyond all legal ethics . this , of course , is okay since it is for a good cause . in the company's last letter one of its vice presidents wrote her , " we now deny it for the eighth and final time . you must be stupid , stupid , stupid ! " needless to say , rudy and deck jump for joy at receiving such valuable evidence as this unequivocal letter . after a slow start the movie takes off dramatically once it gets to the courtroom . an ex-civil rights attorney , judge kipler is played with just the right level of restrained humor by danny glover . " great benefit is like a bad slot machine , " he claims . " it never pays off . " " you remember what a rainmaker is , kid ? " " now , it's a wrongful death suit -- gazillions ! " he effuses . by the end john grisham's the rainmaker becomes a thoroughly delightful piece of entertainment . you'll probably guess most of the twists in the story , but you'll have fun watching them anyway . voight's reptilian performance alone is worth the price of admission . it is rated pg-13 for violence and some profanity . the movie would be fine for kids around eleven and up . 
it's pop quiz time . who stars in flubber , disney's remake of its 1961 film the absent minded professor ? well , if you answered robin williams , you only get partial credit . that is , except for those with flubber in them . with the special visual effects by douglas smith , the academy award winner from independence day , one could argue that smith deserves equal billing with williams . his home looks like inventor wayne szalinski's from honey i shrunk the kids but with gadgets that work . at this point our show has gone nowhere . but with the arrival of phillip's invention of flying rubber , hence " flubber , " the movie takes off right along with the bouncing substance . the script by john hughes , who has done a host of good comedies with the best being ferris bueller's day off , is loosely based on bill walsh's original script . with a young audience in mind , the humor places heavy reliance on physical comedy -- flying bowling balls and golf balls , for example , to knock out the goons . the way they use the flubber substance is quite imaginative . the substance should come with a warning label : do not use internally . wilson does so with disastrous results . the spoken dialog is fairly lame . " i love you with every cell , with every atom , " phillip says about sara in one of show's few mildly funny lines . " i love you on a subatomic level . " most of the show sticks , correctly , to the action for his laughs , and director les mayfield keeps a high energy level to the proceedings without going overboard . one subplot deals with weebo's crush on phillip . in addition to talking , she has a video screen that pops up so that she can show brief clips of old movies to illustrate her feelings . rather than tiring of this gimmick , it actually grows on you as does weebo's adorable personality . the bad guys are purely cartoonish , the type that get knocked down and then knocked down again . robin williams , flying his flubber-powered 1963 red thunderbird convertible , even runs into the tree outside the kid's bedroom . evaluated as adult level humor , flubber would have trouble measuring up . but as a kid's show , it delivers the goods with some riotously funny sequences . finally , consider this modern miracle . flubber is an outlandish kid's comedy without almost no bathroom humor . they don't make many movies like that anymore . it is rated pg for cartoon mayhem and would be fine for all ages . kerry commented on how much she laughed , and jeffrey talked about his favorite characters , weebo , flubber , and the little kid . jeffrey said he thought it was one of the best movies of the year . 
spike lee's publicist sent me an unsolicited press video with the goal of fostering knowledge of the film and building demand that it be shown more widely than it has been those far . from spike lee's very first movie , she's gotta have it , he has demonstrated fresh and interesting approaches to standard material . although his do the right thing , for which he won an academy award for the writing , is arguably his best known film , his picture malcolm x , staring denzel washington , remains my personal favorite . spike lee's first documentary , 4 little girls , certainly ranks among his best films . in one part of the historic film footage in the movie the rev . martin luther king calls birmingham the most segregated city in america . these white and colored signs were not to be treated lightly . the film does not ascribe any subsequent actions to these good intentions . the reaction by bull and his crew was swift and predictable . the film would have been better served with more details of the trial , particularly the investigation leading up to it . also , too much footage is devoted to names like bill cosby and ozzie davis who show up mainly to add star power to the picture . lee's powerful film works best in the stock footage from the past for no words can adequately describe what happened then . the film is not rated but would be pg for mature themes . the picture would be fine for any child old enough to be interested in its subject matter . 
they both grew up in south boston , so the story possesses an authenticity that many lack . always intelligent , usually moving , frequently funny and subtlety emotional , the screenplay takes the story of a hugely gifted individual into uncharted territory . matt damon , who seemed relatively lost in the rainmaker , this time delivers a brilliant and complex performance worthy of an academy award nomination . he can fire off solutions to unsolvable problems as fast as he can shoot off his mouth or swing his fists . in a sequence reminiscent of a woody allen movie , the picture shows will annihilating the shrinks . in a performance worthy of a nomination for best supporting actor , robin williams plays sean . devoid of robin's normal comic shtick , his acting reaches emotional depths that he seldom displays . " don't worry about me , " will tells sean . " i know what i'm doing . " rather than being a distraction , sean's remorse dovetails nicely with will's story of emotional dysfunction . " you'll be fine . " although i would have preferred to see the film end 10 minutes earlier than it does and leave the audience to fill in the story's resolution , the ending does work quite well and mine would have probably tested miserably . good will hunting accomplishes the rarely obtained goal of creating a wide variety of intricate characters , all worth caring about . it is rated r for profanity and sexual humor and would be fine for teenagers . 
" we need a theme , a song , some visuals , " presidential spin doctor conrad brean explains , pitching his big project to hollywood movie producer stanley motss . " it's a pageant . it's like the oscars . that's why we need you . " finally , he comes up with the relatively obscure albania as the perfect villain . normally dramatic film director barry levinson , whose body of work includes diner , rain man , and sleepers , delivers another hit in wag the dog , but this time it is a black comedy . the exceedingly bright and biting script by hilary henkin and the great david mamet will remind you of one current event after another . even in the most ridiculous parts of the story , one's reaction is likely to be a double-take : an " of course not , " followed by a " well , maybe . . . " in a film with a modest $15 million dollar budget , the stars still shine brightly . stanley views his little war as his best piece of work ever . as conrad brean , robert de niro has a wry smile for every hardship in the campaign . he's seen it all and can confuse the media faster than he can say that we are not sending b-3 bombers to albania . leak the story about the non-existent plane and then deny it , deny it , deny it . in my favorite performance in the movie , anne heche plays top presidential aide winifred ames . one minute she tries to be tough , but the next she is looking wide-eyed at conrad's latest outlandish idea . the best sequence in the movie concerns the construction of the war video to show on cnn and the other news networks . they'll scan in a cat in post-production . many other good actors show up as well in the film with woody harrelson having an eye-opening small part , which cannot be described without giving too much away . the main problem with the movie is that it is so hilarious that you may have to see it twice to hear all the funny lines . the audience at our screening could barely control themselves . the opening credits answer the question you have about why the movie is called wag the dog : " why does a dog wag its tail ? because the dog is smarter than the tail . if the tail were smarter , it would wag the dog . " and this marvelously funny film wags the audience until they leave the theater limp from one belly laugh after another . it is rated r for mature themes and some profanity and would be fine for teenagers . 
writer and director james l . brooks , who has blessed us with several wonderful films including terms of endearment and one of my all time favorite movies , broadcast news , gives the world a present this christmas called as good as it gets . few movies live up to their title , but this romantic comedy is indeed just about as good as it gets . he will not walk on lines in the sidewalk , which makes strolling down busy manhattan sidewalks pretty tricky . walking on tiled floors is almost impossible , too hard to avoid the cracks . and if you think that this behavior is bizarre , wait until you see how he treats his fellow human beings . with a sneer he retorts , " i think of men , and i take away reason and accountability . " nicholson's performance would remain just a fascinating side-show were it not for the casting of helen hunt as carol connelly , the only waitress in new york who can tolerate melvin's behavior . " do you have any control over how creepy you can get ? " reportedly holly hunter was to have hunt's role but could not agree on an acceptable salary . as much as i admire hunter's talents , the other hh actress seems much better suited to the role of a struggling waitress . never did i think of hunt as an actress . as i've suggested before , the difference between a good film and a great one lies in how well it handles the small details . consider one believable and riotously funny sequence . another measure of an outstanding film is whether it can break certain motion picture axioms and get away with it . one certainly is that comedies , and most movies for that matter , should come in under two hours . although this one is over two and a quarter hours long , there simply is nothing to cut . i loved all of the characters and would have been happy to see the movie last another hour . if there is any justice in hollywood then nicholson , hunt and kinnear will all get academy award acting nominations as well as brooks and his co-writer mark andrus for the intelligent script and brooks for the dead-on directing . that melvin and carol , who could not be more dissimilar , will fall in love is obvious from the movie's setup , but that doesn't make watching it anything less than enthralling . in one of the movie's best scenes , carol forces a showdown . after a long pause , in which you have no idea how she will react to his strange reply , she reflects , " that's maybe the best compliment of my life . " as good as it gets runs 2 : 18 . it is rated pg-13 for strong language , mature themes , brief nudity and a beating and would be fine for kids around eleven and up . 
one fun activity for parents during the holidays is to suggest an old film and see if they can interest their kids . although black-and-white films are frequently viewed as suspect , ones in color are greeted with more of an open mind . and if you can find a colorful action film , even if it is from six decades ago , then there is a real possibility of a take home hit . nominated for the 1938 academy award for best picture and winner of three oscars for erich wolfgang korngold's melodramatic music , ralph dawson's fast paced editing and carl jules weyl's lush sets , the film is probably best remembered for errol flynn's charismatic acting as sir robin of locksley , a . k . a . robin hood . let me cut to the chase and say that the tape was indeed popular in the rhodes household . the littlest rhodes , jeffrey , age 8 , liked it so much that he viewed it at least three times and maybe more . i'll let him discuss his fascination with the picture in his usual section at the end of the review . simply stated , the film derives its success from being one of the best of its genre , the swashbuckler . robin , with a smile from ear-to-ear , fights off a hundred men without a scratch . although the picture can be considered as little more than a 1930's james bond , the production values and the acting raise it above that level . robin hood is a classic story of rich and poor . robin steals from the rich and gives to the poor as every schoolchild knows . robin , with his courage and athletic skills , serves as a role model for kids . and with the lovely olivia de havilland playing the dreamy-eyed lady marian fitzswalter , the story has heavy romantic overtones . filmed in the typical , richly oversaturated colors produced by early technicolor , the flesh tones are overly pink and there few color subtleties , which match perfectly the wonderfully exaggerated acting of the players . in scene after scene the picture charms the audience . who wouldn't fall for robin as he shows up incognito to win the archery contest , even if the outcome is so clearly preordained . watching the picture today does provide some jarring moments . sherlock holmes as the villain , sir guy of gisbourne , for example , just doesn't seem right , even if basil rathbone did have a real-life identity outside of his most famous role . and then there are those wigs from the makeup department -- so bad , they look like rejects from a mel brooks comedy . as was popular in the cinema of that era , people die with the most gentle prick of the sword and without any nasty , bloody holes to spoil the wardrobe or the looks . bad guys are banished rather than killed , and lovers go off hand-in-hand , doing nothing more explicitly sexual than kissing . the result is a wonderful fairy tale of a movie with delightful , cartoonish figures . hollywood rarely makes such high quality family films like this anymore , so try to savor the old ones when you can . it is not rated , but containing absolutely nothing offensive , it would get a g rating and is fine for all ages . jeffrey thinks the film is " great " and gives it * * * * . he recommends the movie particularly for people who do not likely bloody pictures -- he hates the sight of blood in movies . 
" oh my god , i sounded just like a mother ! " " didn't i sound just like a mother ? " " i know , but i still can't believe it . i look at you people and wonder , how did you ever fit in my womb ? " marty , you see , is a grown-up twin . most dysfunctional families in the movies are more angry and mean-spirited than diabolically abnormal as this one is . the daughter's fantasy of being jackie-o is probably the most sane part of her being . the dialog by wendy macleod , based on the play by mark waters , is so sharp and biting that it seems in danger of cutting through the celluloid at any moment . the script , reminiscent of a david mamet play , flows smoothly with its fast paced intelligence and mesmerizing set of bizarre characters . they don't like to discuss it , although they are not particularly ashamed of it . perfect for viewers who can appreciate perverse comedy , this story never pulls its punches . jackie-o tries in many ways , few subtle , to show that she is a better match for marty than that ditzy fiancee of his . the chemistry between parker posey and josh hamilton is nothing short of amazing . their ripostes are engaging filmmaking at its best . director mark waters keeps the show's energy level high and lets the leads sling zingers at each other at a furious pace . his crisp direction ensures the movie has nary an ounce of fat on it . jackie-o is temperamentally incapable of being nice . " were you poor ? " " did you eat pies ? " pancakes actually , lots of pancakes , " lesly replies with her usual sincerity . " are we entertaining royalty ? " with rolfe kent's whimsically sinister music it never seems clear where the story is headed . will it end in a big emotional explosion , a murder , people slowly cutting each other up with words , a familial catharsis , a weather disaster or what ? the emotionally charged play is clearly going somewhere , and the engaging characters captivate the audience with their spell . i'll not say more except that the ending is perfect and a bit of a surprise . it is rated r for sexual situations and conversations , mature themes , violent overtones and some profanity . the movie would be fine for older and mature teenagers , i . e . , treat the movie as it were rated nc-17 . 
" i'd rather die today and go to heaven than live to be a hundred and go to hell , " earnestly proclaims the pentecostal preacher . with that line coming from a fundamentalist christian minister , hollywood has taught us how we should fill in the rest of the story . instead it gives us a highly devout man , who certainly has his foibles , but with an absolute dedication to his ministry and his god . and arguably just as surprising , the good-spirited film is no comedy , even if it does have humorous moments . instead of levity the picture takes a touchingly serious approach as it introduces us to a world not normally seen in motion pictures . robert duvall not only gives a moving and realistic performance surely destined to receive an academy award nomination but is also the film's director , writer , executive producer , and chief financier . rarely has a movie been such a labor of love . with a white suit , peach-colored shirt and tie , and dark sunglasses , sonny looks as much like a rock star as a preacher . duvall has every movement down pat . " i may be on the devil's hit-list , but i'm on god's mailing list , " he shouts to the congregation in a revival tent . and they lap it up . people jump up , scream , " praise the lord ! " and mean it . the intensity of their shared religious experience is palpable . but sonny is no saint . his romance with the separated woman , like the rest of the film , doesn't follow the standard patterns we have grown to expect from our movies . his confrontation with the apostle is yet another of show's many surprising scenes , again breaking many rules and conceptions about what approach deeply religious people might take . although it probably couldn't have ended any other way , the movie does wrap things up nicely . and don't miss the sweet epilogue during the film's closing credits . a tour de force acting performance by duvall and a surprising and unrelentingly dedicated script makes for an outstanding and moving film . it is rated pg-13 for mild profanity and brief violence and would be fine for kids eleven and up . 
just a few years ago , my son turned on to one of my all-time favorite cinematic series , star wars . these pictures had everything , including , but not limited to , exotic locales -- remember world-wide travel was not that prevalent then , lush sets , high tech gadgets , beautiful people , beaucoup sexual innuendo , heavy action and non-stop entertainment . no , set to a seductive calypso beat , could not have been a better introduction to the series . the smooth movie goes down as easily as one of those potent caribbean drinks . even the show's obvious flaws -- most of the fight choreography is atrocious , for example -- become part of its simple charms . it is as if the studios knew how popular the shows would become , so they took their time with the first one in making the lead character accessible and worth caring about . as he thwarts every foe with grace , wit , and style , the audience laps it up . connery makes bond so inherently likable that no matter how outlandish his maneuvers , he never seems in any danger of overacting . no personalized car with on-board water cannon , fog making machine , or any other gizmo . although not necessarily the first thing that comes to mind when you think of a bond picture , one part that rarely disappoints is the music . no . not only does it set the mood and the pace perfectly , but it leaves you humming the tunes when the show is over . the perfect pacing draws you quickly into the story's characters . as they sing easy-going caribbean songs like " underneath the mango tree , " jamaica at first seems an odd choice for a spy thriller . the result is certainly one of the more relaxed of the bond films . this time it surrounds a device that the nefarious dr . no uses that can force missiles off course . when we first see her perfectly shaped body in an athletic looking two piece swimsuit encasing her golden tan , the natural reaction is " wow ! " even the locals will not go there thanks to the presence of a fire-breathing dragon . in a winner for the story's most ridiculous but undoubtedly most realistic part , the jamaicans wear loose fitting short sleeve shirts in the hot caribbean weather while the outsiders torture themselves for the sake of fashion by wearing gray suits with long sleeved shirts and ties . in the bond films , especially the early ones , sex is a kiss with a cutaway before the action starts and a cut back after it is over . in an age where this genre of show often degenerates into a special effects extravaganza , it is refreshing to see one , like dr . no , where brains can be characters' salvation . it is rated pg for violence and sexual innuendo and would be fine for kids around nine and up . my son jeffrey , almost 9 , thought the film was great ! too much kissing . 
the great director robert wise will probably be forever remembered for such popular musicals as west side story and sound of music even though he does have some significant science fiction films to his credit , including star trek : the motion picture and the day the earth stood still . in 1971 wise directed the first film adaptation of a michael crichton novel , the andromeda strain . the film's screenwriter , nelson gidding , has had a particularly mediocre career , including such unmemorable films as beyond the poseidon adventure and the mummy lives . nevertheless , the andromeda strain's staging and scripting give it an eerie documentary feel that works perfectly . the show's conundrum is what is the common thread that saved these two disparate individuals . arthur hill in one of his finest performances ever plays the team's lead scientist , dr . jeremy stone . they discuss in detail the scientific experiments that proved that a single person will be the most rational user of the key . carefully casting an exceedingly homely and pudgy woman , the focus stays firmly on her technical abilities and leaves aside the usual love interest that most scripts seem obliged to include . the beauty of the script and the direction is the contrast of the fast paced demands placed on the researchers with the meticulousness of their experiments . they talk and argue like scientists whereas audiences are used to expensive actors showing off their emotions at every turn . one might criticize wise's presentation as dull , but to me it was brilliantly realistic and totally captivating . every twist and turn in the show draws you more and more into the story . the ending is arguably a bit too neat , but works nevertheless . it is rated pg for mature themes and would be fine for kids around nine and up . 
a bottling plant can be a dangerous place if you're only a few inches tall . stuck in a milk bottle on its way down the assembly line to be filled , you are naturally consumed with terror . and it doesn't help if you're a little boy who hates milk anyway . borrowers are actually further divided into innies and outies , much like bellybuttons . innies are those borrowers that live inside your walls and under your floorboards . you've never seen them , of course , but when a sock seems to have disappeared from your drawer , it was probably a borrower who took it . among the film's many delights are gemma jackson's sets and marie france's costumes , both worthy of oscar consideration . the world as viewed from four inches high has never been more interesting and realistic , thanks to special effects that seem so natural . among the many little worlds created , the refrigerator is one of the best . why , to make climbing up easier . all of this is filmed by john fenner and trevor brooker with a rust colored cinematography that gives the picture a dreamy , nostalgic look . the screenplay by gavin scott and john kamps never makes the mistake so common today in kids' movies of setting the tone too dark . this is an imaginative environment where the borrowers creativity constantly saves the day . the movie teaches many a good lesson along the way . the serious father , who like all of the borrowers has a whimsically fun hairstyle , lectures his children on exactly what a borrower is . for those of you who liked the idea of tiny creatures living in walls battling a villain and an exterminator but hated mouse hunt , the borrowers is just picture for you . the ending , straight out of a brueghel painting , has a mass of borrowers so sweet that it may bring tears of joy to your eyes . " we're not creeps . and we're not pests . with the courage of a noble race , he explains that , " we may be small but heaven help anyone who thinks he might squish us . " it is rated pg for cartoonish violence and would be fine for kids four or five and up as well as adults with or without any kids . my son jeffrey , almost 9 , highly recommends the movie . his friend steven , age 9 , thought the movie was really funny . steven's twin john , obviously also 9 , thought it was a wonderful movie . 
his sense of loss becomes palpable in this moving drama and mystery , aptly called men with guns . in men with guns john sayles , one of our preeminent storytellers , tackles another subject ignored by most other filmmakers . one thing sure and certain about sayles's movies is that they will be highly intelligent and worth a second or even a third viewing to savor the rich tapestry he arrays in front of us . he even bankrolls his own movies lest some studio head dare suggest how he should approach his craft . sayles , who taught himself spanish , wrote the script directly in spanish and then had a latin american native translate it into an appropriate dialect . although sad , this poignantly moving tale is never less than engrossing , not so much as a big mystery but in its almost spiritual exploration along the way . federico luppi gives an impressive portrayal of dr . fuentes . with his highly polished look , he brings a commanding presence to the role . why ? as the boy conejo , dan rivera gonzalez delivers a performance so natural that it sometimes seems he isn't acting at all . ( in a blessed relief from the show's tension , mandy patinkin and kathryn grody play american tourists with laughably bad spanish , who have a blast touring the local ruins during all of this commotion . it is rated r for language and some violent images and would be an excellent choice for teenagers as well as adults . 
" you never know who anybody is , except me , " susan reassures him . " i am who i am . " well , maybe . you can never be sure in this fascinating labyrinth , written and directed by david mamet in his unique and highly literate style . mamet , whose most recent screenplay was the incredible wag the dog , has given us a host of brilliant pieces of writing , from the more popular ones like the verdict and the untouchables to the even better art house films such as things change and house of games . it is the latter picture that comes closest to the plot and tone of the spanish prisioner , and house of games , being his best film ever , is the one most deserving of inspiring another . more like poetry than prose , the words and the situations of his movies are like impressionist paintings . they make strong statements , but don't attempt a completely realistic approach . this computerless environment is completely divorced from modern reality , and yet works marvelously well in the context of the story . but why ? in a sequence that could serve as a metaphor for the entire story , when one of the japanese tourists speaks , she isn't a tourist after all , but a native texan . she says her few lines with a thick hillbilly accent , . even in picture filled with surprises , this one manages yet again to remind us that things indeed are far from what they seem in the spanish prisoner . it is rated pg for thematic elements including tension , some violent images and brief language and would be fine for kids age 10 and up . 
some author's works , john grisham's for example , are easily adapted to the big screen . although many of tom clancy's novels have been successfully made into motion pictures , they are so intricately and carefully composed that keeping them within the confines of a standard length movie without disturbing their elaborate structure is tricky . screenwriters larry ferguson and donald stewart approached the material as assiduously as clancy himself with the result being a screenplay that truly does justice to the book . ( harrison ford was picked as a much more bankable star to do the follow-up films , and he is indeed a better jack ryan since he seems so much more vulnerable . ) but , like the everyman role so popular in movies from capra to hitchcock , he rises to the occasion when called . the u . s . and the russians distrust each other , and one of the best series of scenes has the political operatives of both sides engaging in boldfaced lies with each knowing the other is lying and yet not being quite sure what the real truth is . the wonderfully intricate story asks many questions . what , for example , would ramius do if he did defect ? the usual idiots and megalomaniacs are thankfully absent . scott glenn , who all too often gets such inferior roles as his recent disastrous one in firestorm , plays an important one here as capt . bart mancuso , the captain of the american sub tracking ramius . the entire cast down to the smallest role is meticulously chosen . courtney b . vance is wonderful in the small part of the cocky but friendly sonar technician . and the americans aren't sure whether to save the sub or sink it . cecelia hall and george watters , winners of the academy award that year for sound effects editing , gives the picture a heart-throbbing intensity and enough deep bass to blow your subwoofers . this is coupled with the beautiful and impressive underwater scenes of the big blue steel masses slinking by , all filmed handsomely by jan de bont , who would go on to direct twister and both of the speed movies . with its crisp editing by dennis virkler and john wright , who were nominated for an oscar , the picture maintains maximum sustained impact and tension . as we learned in the classic film das boot , there is no place of higher tension than the claustrophobic confines of a submarine . the hunt for red october runs 2 : 15 without a minute of fat . it is rated pg for tension and mild profanity and would be fine for kids around 9 and up . my son jeffrey , age 9 , thought it was a good movie . he said he especially liked connery's acting and the way jack ryan was really smart . 
" in this life there are only two tragedies , " oscar wilde reflects at the end of the new film about his life , entitled simply wilde . wilde is neither the tragedy nor the comedy that audiences may be expecting , although it certainly includes doses of both . it is first and foremost a celebration of the joy of life . even if his life did turn horribly tragic in the end , wilde lived it with great gusto up until then , and audiences are apt to find this sublime picture just as wonderfully satisfying as wilde found the majority of his life . stephen fry , last seen as the judge in the wind in the willows , gives a mesmerizing and highly nuanced performance as wilde . so utterly natural in his acting , fry becomes wilde . wilde referred to this love of young men by older ones as " the love that dare not speak its name . " jude law from gattaca delivers an emotionally complex performance as bosie . " it's disgusting ! " ) the warm and intimate cinematography by martin fuhrer contrasts nicely with the subtly flamboyant costumes by nic ede . the result is an inviting picture that becomes more captivating with each moment . director brian gilbert stages each scene with delicate precision . the sex scenes are handled tastefully , showing enough romantic passion that it is crystal clear what is happening , but without ever letting the movie lapse into some tawdry , soft porn film . the resulting careful balance will likely leave audiences neither offended nor disappointed . you can feel wilde's ardor for both sexes and the heavy , open mouth kissing - there are more explicit scenes - manages to convey it most effectively . fry's bravado performance works as well in the latter episodes of great poignancy as they do during his earlier revelry . the utterly exquisite picture is enthralling from beginning to end . even if it ends in tragedy , wilde's earlier felicity is likely to be the emotion that viewers take away . wilde runs 1 : 57 . it is rated r for profanity , nudity and strong sexuality and would fine for older and mature teenagers . 
" i can sit there and do nothing as good as anyone , " margaret explains in her rationale for why she should be considered just as competent as the workers she fills in for . pamela marcotte's sets create a scarily sterile office environment that is creepily realistic . the wry script , by the director and her sister , karen sprecher , is full of subtle humor and poignancy . even when the dilbert-like situations are exaggerated , they always possess gems of frightening truth . although the story is more a comedy of manners coupled with social satire , it takes the time to develop the four women into real characters with interesting backgrounds . the last half of the story concerns a mystery about an office kleptomaniac , but the movie doesn't leave much doubt about the identity of the miscreant . the film creates four individuals whose plights are easy to empathize with and who are naturally funny without trying to be so . with its kafkaesque plot , the characters are more pitiable than hilarious , although they are both and usually at the same time . it is rated pg-13 for a little profanity and would be fine for kids around 10 and up although its office-based humor may even be over the heads of most teenagers . 
count the funny one-liners . that's the measure of most good comedies today . the farrelly brothers , bobby and peter , who brought us dumb & dumber and kingpin , take an entirely different approach . relying on funny plots , as opposed to single lines , and on great physical comedy , they manage in there's something about mary to produce a movie that should come with two warnings . one , people may laugh so hard , as our audience did , that they are in danger of rupturing internal organs . ( at our advanced screening , i heard louder laughter than at any movie since private parts . the laughs sounded like small explosions . ) two , the farrelly brothers are proudly ignorant as to what might constitute inappropriate humor . in one of her best performances yet , cameron diaz plays mary with grace and charm . comedy comes so naturally to diaz that she seems to be barely acting . her performance is as captivating as it is funny . it is in this long sequence that the movie first demonstrates its comedic brilliance . most movies would dissolve into bad slapstick if they attempted to stay with this one idea for so long . the farrelly's , helped by the extremely expressive stiller , keep the joke going for longer that you would ever image , and they make it much more explicit than you might guess . the result is sure to have at least half of the audience grimacing in pain as everyone laughs so hard their sides may split . ( the stuck-in-the-zipper routine isn't even close to the movie's most outlandish part . much later there is a masturbation sequence so funny that it almost brings the house down with laugher . ) this just gives you a flavor of this uproarious movie . i'll let you experience the rest yourselves . and i haven't even mentioned the flaming dog or a hundred other hilarious parts of this high-energy delight . many of the scenes have unprintable descriptions anyway . there's something about mary runs 1 : 55 . it is rated r for strong comic sexual content and language and would be fine for most teenagers . 
academy award winning actor kevin spacey is easily one of the most interesting actors working in film today . never to be taken for granted , he brings a cool unpredictability to any part he plays . negotiator his cherubic face masks an intelligence and intensity that makes his character completely captivating . it's never clear what his next move will be . " you have no idea what i am capable of . " no kidding . director f . gary gray's taut thriller starts with a formulaic approach , but soon takes some major side turns . from beginning to end , the well-executed film has the audience on the edge of their seats . although there are some bad plot choices , as when one character's bravado turns almost suicidal , the story is a well-developed and intelligent mystery about police corruption . with plenty of action to keep the adrenaline pumping but not so much as to overwhelm the psychological drama at the heart of the story , the movie strikes just the right balance . the brightly written script by james demonaco and kevin fox mixes in just enough humor without transforming the tone of the picture . it assumes the audience has enough intelligence to see some obvious ruses even before most of the characters in the drama realize what is happening . j . t . walsh , who specialized in portraying characters with shady reputations , is perfect for the part . as good as jackson is as the story's central character , spacey is even better . chris and danny go into a beautifully scripted series of negotiations . danny is the funniest , but chris is the most surprising . suffice it to say that you wouldn't want to play cards with either of them . gives a fast-paced energy to the picture's look . using fast moving close-ups , slow motion , and a few cuts to black and white , he gives the movie a gritty intimacy . the engrossing movie has a strong supporting cast that includes david morse , ron rifkin , and john spencer among others . the test of a mystery and an action thriller is how well the writers can bring the story to a conclusion . the negotiator has some well thought through ending surprises that are completely plausible and fascinating to watch unfold . if a film has kevin spacey in it , you will not be disappointed . even if spacey should find his way into a bad movie , his part will be well worth the negotiator runs a little too long at 2 : 15 . it is rated r for violence and profanity and would be fine for most teenagers . 
rather than attempting to recreate the hayley mills role from the 1961 classic , she brings her own vivacious freshness to make it a completely different movie , albeit with the same plot . whether you like the original movie or not , you will love the delightful remake . part comedy and part romance , the movie can even bring the audience to tears with its considerations of the bonds that exist between parent and child . the film's lovely script is by nancy meyers and charles shyer , the writing team for the wonderful father of the bride movies . they have a talent for blending in just enough silly comedy to win the hearts of the youngest members of the audience , while still keeping the story intelligent and the characters richly drawn . meyers , who tries her hand at directing for the first time in this film , has a good sense of timing and a knack for staging that ranges from the sweet to the slapstick without ever going overboard . both families are rich enough to have their own butlers , although americans would never call them such , of course , since it would imply some sort of class system . both have more than enough personality to be the stars of their own movies . they are more like part of the family than hired help , and they significantly add to rather than merely complement the storyline . the setup for the plot is that the girls do not know they are twins and have never seen their other parent . these scenes will send the younger members of the audience rolling in giggles , but they are done with enough class to amuse the adults as well . the girls have such genuine chemistry for each other that the audience is rooting for them to pull off their big scheme . from this point on , the story has the good judgement to focus more on the relationship than the gimmicks of the impersonations . perhaps the most amazing part of the parent trap is its universal appeal . it will delight all sexes and ages , even adults with no children . few films can pull this off , but the parent trap does with almost complete success . it is rated pg for reasons that are not immediately obvious , and the movie should appeal to all ages . my son jeffrey and his buddy nickolas , both 9 , loved the movie and each gave it * * * * . 
academy award winning actor kevin spacey is easily one of the most interesting actors working in film today . never to be taken for granted , he brings a cool unpredictability to any part he plays . in the negotiator his cherubic face masks an intelligence and intensity that makes his character completely captivating . it's never clear what his next move will be . " you have no idea what i am capable of . " no kidding . director f . gary gray's taut thriller starts with a formulaic approach , but soon takes some major side turns . from beginning to end , the well-executed film has the audience on the edge of their seats . although there are some bad plot choices , as when one character's bravado turns almost suicidal , the story is a well-developed and intelligent mystery about police corruption . with plenty of action to keep the adrenaline pumping but not so much as to overwhelm the psychological drama at the heart of the story , the movie strikes just the right balance . the brightly written script by james demonaco and kevin fox mixes in just enough humor without transforming the tone of the picture . it assumes the audience has enough intelligence to see some obvious ruses even before most of the characters in the drama realize what is happening . j . t . walsh , who specialized in portraying characters with shady reputations , is perfect for the part . as good as jackson is as the story's central character , spacey is even better . chris and danny go into a beautifully scripted series of negotiations . danny is the funniest , but chris is the most surprising . suffice it to say that you wouldn't want to play cards with either of them . russell carpenter , titanic's academy award winning cinematographer , gives a fast-paced energy to the picture's look . using fast moving close-ups , slow motion , and a few cuts to black and white , he gives the movie a gritty intimacy . the engrossing movie has a strong supporting cast that includes david morse , ron rifkin , and john spencer among others . the test of a mystery and an action thriller is how well the writers can bring the story to a conclusion . the negotiator has some well thought through ending surprises that are completely plausible and fascinating to watch unfold . if a film has kevin spacey in it , you will not be disappointed . even if spacey should find his way into a bad movie , his part will be well worth seeing . the negotiator runs a little too long at 2 : 15 . it is rated r for violence and profanity and would be fine for most teenagers . 
" great , couldn't be better , " is the universal refrain of the smiling characters that inhabit writer and director neil labute's second film , your friends and neighbors . that they are actually anything but is no surprise given the filmmaker . your friends and neighbors paints such a hopelessly bleak picture of relationships that we may want to become a nation of hermits . when characters share moments of joy , you can be sure that labute will soon pull the rug out from under them and that their little sexual flings will turn into horrific mistakes . the bleak story engulfs the audience's emotions but provides just enough humor to make it bearable . the ensemble casting is superlative so the emotional drain it puts on the viewers is well worth its toll . as cary , the story's only thoroughly evil character , jason patric has the easiest part . nastassja kinski plays cheri , an artist's assistant and the film's only completely sympathetic character . labute has the other characters coming into the art gallery where cheri works and engaging in the same series of lines with her but with differing results . as the nerdy drama teacher , jerry , ben stiller is the story's most unsatisfying and ingratiating character . stiller , last seen hilariously in there's something about mary , makes jerry into a bit too much of a caricature . catherine keener , with her translucent acting style , plays terri , a writer - well , sort of . when cheri asks if she might have ever read anything of terri's , terri answers , " only if you read the side of your tampon box . " they hit it off in one of the few romances in the story that has much real promise . their picture postcard perfect marriage is quickly shown to be a facade . sometimes the characters' sexual adventures start off with hope and promise . one adulterous affair has the characters giggling gleefully like teenagers . they start their clandestine arrangement with the wonderful intimacy of a simple hug . " it's a funny world . in labute's stories , life certainly is complex , and , when people speak , things only get worse . his characters' vituperative language is more cutting than knives . rarely raising their voices , they manage to inflict mortal wounds with moments of relatively quiet terror . biting social commentary wrapped in the thin veneer of a black comedy , his films have much to say even if they can be overwhelming . unlike action films you forget in an hour , his movies will stay with you for years afterwards , provoking thought and reflection . it is rated r for profanity , sex , and very mature themes and would be appropriate for teenagers only if they are older and mature . 
but like most alcoholics , his abstinence doesn't last long . mike is a pensive guy who can read a player's hand in a heartbeat by observing every nuance of the other player's expressions . john dahl , director of the brilliant the last seduction , takes a parsimonious and precise approach to his direction of rounders . scenes are staged for dramatic impact without requiring the actors to push the emotional envelope . the script by first-time screenwriters david levien and brian koppelman takes a formula story and turns many of the rules upside down . the audience suspects that the movie may end in a big game , but the movie seems to be in no rush getting to it . what the film becomes is an atmospheric character study of the world of gambling . the script's sporadic humor bursts out periodically to shatter the story's more somber rhythms . mike speaks in frequent , rich narration to provide just enough explanation about the game to clear up some of its mysteries and to explain his character's motivations . " you don't hear much about guys who take their shot and miss , " he reflects in his most introspective moment . the ensemble cast is well chosen and developed to maximum advantage . malkovich has an over-the-top accent that is nothing short of hilarious . rounders has a well-chosen name for more reasons than one . an extremely well rounded film , it works as well in the small moments as well as the big ones . although the conclusion is satisfying and well developed , the journey itself is the reward . it is rated r for some sex , nudity , profanity , and drug usage and would be fine for older teenagers . 
still gordon has a problem with which many will be able to identify . his poetry shows up in his advertising copy , but that is not enough for gordon . " poetry , advertising -- it's all the same words only in different order , " he argues . the enthralling movie has broad appeal from dilbert fans to romantics . the movie argues convincingly that we should all follow our hearts and our passions when it comes to work and to love . as the tenacious gordon comstock , richard e . grant shows the frustrations and the joys of one embarking on a tricky journey , trying to make money at something one really cares about . the bitingly funny script tells it like it is , while always displaying a big heart . " professionally speaking , you've entered a totally blind alley . " even if such jobs are common place , it isn't often that the boss tells you this during the hiring interview . lovingly directed by robert bierman , the film contains wonderfully evocative music by mike batt . inviting and magically happy , the music with its warm nostalgic feeling matches perfectly the handsome , 1930s sets and the golden cinematography . the little story meanders delightfully like a small brook cutting through lush fields . romantic , poignant , and exhilarating , the movie always rings true . with little laughs around every turn the film is as easy to watch as it is subtly substantial . it is full of messages without ever seeming to have many . " you can't beat that for value . " and this charming little movie gives full value from its beginning to its happy ending . " remember , " rosemary reminds gordon . follow your dreams , argues the movie , and you will be free . it is not rated but probably would be pg-13 for sexual situations . the film would be fine for kids around twelve and up . 
" failure " is considered the worst obscenity and is not to be uttered from the lips of a gulden . the carefully constructed script by karen croner , based on an anna quindlen novel , makes the professor into a conceited academic , who is much more complex that he seems on the surface . " i'm developing hardening of the sentence structure and inflammation of the paragraph . " ( this quote will later provide one of the story's many small , but important turning points . ) with her slightly sad , little girl demeanor in an adult body , zellweger is perfectly cast for the part . meryl streep plays kate , and streep would have been wasted if the story had stayed at this comedic level . be warned that those who have recently lost a parent or a loved one will undoubtedly find many of the scenes of her illness , no matter how delicately staged , to be quite hard to watch . zellweger , even though she gets second billing to streep , manages to rise above the superlative performances given by streep and hurt . as in the best family stories , the family in this one is quite complex . with a bette midler song playing , they embrace in a dance full of genuine chemistry between them . but , after all of the years , there are signs -- important ones -- that there is a hidden problem . the main tension in the film comes from the demands that george puts on ellen . even if it is basically a character study , the film has several small mysteries whose slightly ambiguous resolutions help piece together the family puzzle . a film of quiet emotions and subtle power , one true thing , directed by one false move's carl franklin , has three marvelous performances and a touching story . in a time when most movie families are hopelessly dysfunctional , it is refreshing to see one that doesn't quite fit the mold . it is rated r for adult themes and a little profanity and would be fine for kids around twelve and up . 
still gordon has a problem with which many will be able to identify . his poetry shows up in his advertising copy , but that is not enough for gordon . " poetry , advertising -- it's all the same words only in different order , " he argues . the enthralling movie has broad appeal from dilbert fans to romantics . the movie argues convincingly that we should all follow our hearts and our passions when it comes to work and to love . as the tenacious gordon comstock , richard e . grant shows the frustrations and the joys of one embarking on a tricky journey , trying to make money at something one really cares about . the bitingly funny script tells it like it is , while always displaying a big heart . " professionally speaking , you've entered a totally blind alley . " even if such jobs are common place , it isn't often that the boss tells you this during the hiring interview . lovingly directed by robert bierman , the film contains wonderfully evocative music by mike batt . inviting and magically happy , the music with its warm nostalgic feeling matches perfectly the handsome , 1930s sets and the golden cinematography . the little story meanders delightfully like a small brook cutting through lush fields . romantic , poignant , and exhilarating , the movie always rings true . with little laughs around every turn the film is as easy to watch as it is subtly substantial . it is full of messages without ever seeming to have many . " you can't beat that for value . " and this charming little movie gives full value from its beginning to its happy ending . " remember , " rosemary reminds gordon . follow your dreams , argues the movie , and you will be free . it is not rated but probably would be pg-13 for sexual situations . the film would be fine for kids around twelve and up . 
" failure " is considered the worst obscenity and is not to be uttered from the lips of a gulden . the carefully constructed script by karen croner , based on an anna quindlen novel , makes the professor into a conceited academic , who is much more complex that he seems on the surface . " i'm developing hardening of the sentence structure and inflammation of the paragraph . " ( this quote will later provide one of the story's many small , but important turning points . ) with her slightly sad , little girl demeanor in an adult body , zellweger is perfectly cast for the part . meryl streep plays kate , and streep would have been wasted if the story had stayed at this comedic level . be warned that those who have recently lost a parent or a loved one will undoubtedly find many of the scenes of her illness , no matter how delicately staged , to be quite hard to watch . zellweger , even though she gets second billing to streep , manages to rise above the superlative performances given by streep and hurt . as in the best family stories , the family in this one is quite complex . with a bette midler song playing , they embrace in a dance full of genuine chemistry between them . but , after all of the years , there are signs -- important ones -- that there is a hidden problem . the main tension in the film comes from the demands that george puts on ellen . even if it is basically a character study , the film has several small mysteries whose slightly ambiguous resolutions help piece together the family puzzle . a film of quiet emotions and subtle power , one true thing , directed by one false move's carl franklin , has three marvelous performances and a touching story . in a time when most movie families are hopelessly dysfunctional , it is refreshing to see one that doesn't quite fit the mold . it is rated r for adult themes and a little profanity and would be fine for kids around twelve and up . 
exactly how much pain would you be willing to endure for a chance to win a nissan pickup truck worth $15 , 000 ? the best documentaries consider offbeat subjects that seem on the surface to have no broad appeal . bindler takes us into an annual human endurance contest with the result being one of the funniest and most involving films of the year as we get to know the contestants . the best part of this life-affirming film about blue-collar workers is that the sympathetic filmmaker avoids the cheap shots while still producing a film that has the audience frequently in stitches . there are 5-minute breaks every hour . any infraction of these rules , no matter how brief , immediately disqualifies the person . the film creates a wonderful arc as the audience goes from initially laughing at these country folks with their funny sounding , thick texas accents to laughing with them and then , finally , empathizing with their quest . by the end of the movie , the viewers become glued to their seats wondering who among their newfound friends will next succumb to the pain and have to drop out or will be forced out through some silly blunder . each time someone leaves the vehicle you can almost hear the audience sigh . as the film's philosopher , and clearly the man to beat , he explains that it went 87 hours the year he won . although the movie works as sport , the real beauty comes from the people we get to know . " it is extremely crazy . it's a human drama thing . " not everyone has the mettle , he reminds us . " if you can't run with the big dogs , " he declares , " you better stay on the porch with the pups . " built like a bowling bowl and just as strong , she's certain to be a contender for this year's crown . why , because he was offered such a great deal on it . there is a sandra bullock lookalike , and a host of other individuals who seem straight out of central casting for their variety . he figures that if he doesn't put too much in , not too much will want to come out . their collective stamina is amazing . this piece of americana has an ending that is surprising in many ways , not the least of which is how sudden and unexpected it is . " the very basic human values . " benny was proven right again . it is rated pg for a little bad language and would be fine for all ages . the film is playing now in extremely limited distribution . 
documentaries about the holocaust : you know the story . been there done , done that . seen 'em all . don't need to see any more . although the lessons to be learned from one of the greatest tragedies in human history are so crucial that repeat viewings of old holocaust films should be required , the long way home is a documentary filled with archival footage that you most likely have never seen before . telling the rarely told story of the immediate aftermath of the mass destruction of the jewish people , the new film by mark jonathan harris presents us with tragedies of which most of us are relatively ignorant . albeit not on the level of genocide , the incidents are gut wrenching . with its opening scenes in modern-day europe , the film shows a picture postcard village that is bursting with a dazzling array of colorful flowers . they were supposed to stay put , but they didn't . the documentary composition breaks no new ground , following the traditional structure using historical moving and still images with star-powered voice-overs interspersed with contemporary talking heads . the academy award winner last year in a strong year for documentaries ( waco : the rules of engagement , fast cheap & out of control and riding the rails ) , the long way home wasn't the best documentary of the year , but it certainly was one of the best . guaranteed to move your mind and heart , the film does what documentaries are intended to do , bring to you material that you're not likely to see otherwise . as the famished internees scarf down their food , it becomes too much for them . " why am i alive ? " " i don't know . maybe this is a punishment . " once they arrived , they found that their relatives didn't quite believe what had happened to them , and most wanted to hear nothing about it . " you live in american now -- the past is the past , " was a typical refrain . the fascinating but chilling film ends as it began with another burst of color . but if you look closer , you'll see young men and women in army fatigues carrying submachine guns -- israeli built uzi's . it is not rated but would probably be pg-13 for war images and would be fine for kids around 12 and up . 
easily the best family movie in the past few years was 1995's toy story . the pixar animation studios are back this year with their second motion picture , a bug's life , which is another brilliant piece of filmmaking . although the script is not quite up to the level of their first film , the movie is technically and artistically superior to dreamworks's antz , a film started after a bug's life but rushed to market sooner . unlike antz , full of woody allen's angst-filled musings targeted to some indeterminate age group , a bug's life , with its large doses of good-spirited humor , will charm a preschooler as well as an octogenarian . brightly lit and created with dazzling computer-generated animation , the film surpasses both toy story and antz in the intricacy and fluidity of the production . the press notes say that it took up to 100 hours of computer time to render a single frame of the most complicated scenes . rarely has computing power been put to use more effectively . but the sheer joy of a bug's life comes not from the film's technical prowess but from the sweet and loveable characters and situations it creates . the script by andrew stanton , donald mcenery and bob shaw is not only delightful , it is so funny that it had our press-only screening in such stitches that i missed half the jokes . it was so warmly received that the critics were applauding in the end , something these normally reticent professionals avoid . one ants claims that the catastrophe wasn't nearly as bad as the " twig of 93 . " in private , he says that , since there are more ants than grasshoppers , it would be a terrible thing for the local insect food chain if the ants ever figured out what they could accomplish with their vaster numbers . they never expect to see him again , which would please most of them . the wise script milks this idea for a long stream of laughs before it lets both sides realize how vulnerable they are . although the film contains none of the inappropriate sexual references of antz , it does have one hilarious line when the lightning bugs accidentally shine a light at the wrong time . this is the only even slightly off-color line in the entire picture . the marvelously inventive film ends in a celebration in which the ants even figure out how to create fireworks out of nothing more than some weeds . this sumptuous ending sequence is a perfect conclusion to a magical film . and then come the ending credits when , in the " outtakes , " we see how hard it is even for animated characters to get their lines right and to keep a straight face . whatever you do , don't miss a minute of this hilarious concoction . it is rated g and would be a great choice for all ages . my son jeffrey , age 9 , gave it * * * * , said it was one of the best pictures of the year , and thought it was " way better than antz . " he can't wait to see it again . 
rather than scurrying back to heaven , he decides to stay awhile on earth and see what it's like , so he expropriates brad pitt's body for the purpose -- something just about everyone would like to do . meet joe black is an incredible movie that doesn't fit neatly into any genre . certainly it is a wonderful romance -- think date movie of the year , but it is much more that that . at times it can be extremely poignant , at other times it is wise , and it is always interlaced with intelligent and delicious comedy . one thing is certain , the casting is superb . brad pitt , showing a gift for subtle , physical comedy , delivers the best performance of his career . he deserves oscar consideration although he will probably be ignored since the role doesn't have the maudlin seriousness that the academy frequently prefers . with his golden blonde , perfectly unkempt hair , his deep blue eyes , and his bewitching smile , he mesmerizes the audience . the distinguished hopkins is equally handsome , albeit a few decades older . pitt plays the part as a spectacular cipher . a slightly offended and perplexed joe muses , " death and taxes ? that's an odd pairing . " " you know about money , don't you ? " bill asks , not quite sure . " you can't buy happiness ? " in film that sets a new standard for tranquility , thanks to the director's methodical , dreamy pacing , its few tragedies are so striking that your heart may miss a few beats . still , the overall feeling that will probably remain with you is a completely contented and romantic one . exquisitely filmed by emmanuel lubezki , the movie almost manages to make its three-hour length unnoticeable . in its last 45 minutes , the movie starts to end several times but keeps not quite finishing . when the ending , which does take too long in coming , arrives , it is spectacular . like the rest of the film , it is funny , poignant , romantic and downright perfect . it is rated pg-13 for sexuality , death , and a little profanity and would be fine for kids around 12 an up . 
alternatively witty , poignant , insightful and surprising , the film relates the story of a man's life by focusing on its ending , while keeping the flashbacks to a minimum . whale , played with an oscar caliber performance by ian mckellen , was an eccentric and a loner . an avowed homosexual , at a time when few admitted it publicly , whale dropped out of the active hollywood scene . although the choice of fraser to go opposite sir ian may seem a bit odd , it works . comedic actor fraser , who has played serious parts before , as in school ties , makes us expect much less than we get . he gives his character charisma and a subtle complexity . he says , for example , that boris karloff was a proper english actor but was dreadfully dull . the natural chemistry between them doesn't follow conventional patterns . the movie contains old film footage of jimmy's classic movies as well as reconstructions of their shootings . although these form the heart of god and monsters , there are many wonderfully little odd ball incidents as well . typical of these is the obviously gay reporter who doesn't have much respect for jimmy's talents but has come for a pro forma interview of him . based on christopher bram's novel , written and lovingly directed by bill condon , the film touches us with its honest and poignant portrayal of a fascinating individual . it is not rated but would be an r for sex , profanity and mature subject matter and would be fine for older and mature teenagers . 
the human-looking pets in fantastic planet , a science-fiction allegory , are about the size of mice . after years of reviewing movies , one begins to establish certain parameters for a movie in one's mind . films may push various envelopes , but they are all constructed within certain bounds of the motion picture medium . the french-czechoslovakian animated movie is constructed of richly elaborate but frequently static images . certainly not a kids' movie , the orwellian story is packed with intricate messages within a deceptively , simple structure . director rene laloux uses the film's striking but unusual visual style to entrance the viewer , while the terse story , based on stefan wul's novel , " oms en serie , " is full of complex meanings . i'll admit that i read the film's description before the press screening and almost decided to skip it . if i had followed with my instincts , i would have missed something unforgettable and unique . if there ever was a film that needed to be experienced in order to be appreciated , this is it . reading critics' words about it just does not do it justice . it is rated pg and contains full-frontal nudity , violence and mature themes . the film would be fine for teenagers . 
joe's handle is a cryptic " ny152 , " and kathleen has a slightly more revealing one of " shopgirl . " " it makes me want to buy school supplies . i would send you a bouquet of newly-sharpened pencils if i knew your name and address . on the other hand , this not knowing has its charms . " a movie that tries hard to charm your socks off , you've got mail succeeds most of the time . they create a pg-rated romantic comedy for adults with an intelligent and hilarious script and with charismatic acting . without feeling the need to disrobe or toss around obscenities , the adorable picture makes its points . if you don't understand that quote , don't be surprised . except for joe's uninteresting and bizarre relatives , the movie has a strong cast that is given their fair share of juicy lines . " i tried to have cybersex once , " birdie confesses . the movie captures its romantic rhythms and sights in such a subtle way that you slowly fall in love with the city without even realizing it's flirting with you . the light and breezy movie goes down as easy as one of those large , fancy coffee drinks featured prominently in the story . the movie , however , is a little too large . skimming off a little of the froth , like joe's relatives , would improve the brew . even if the mixture is not absolutely perfect , it is consistently charming and delightful . with two attractive and lovable stars and with a script that will have you in stitches , the film is a welcome christmas present for the romantically inclined . to be fair , the bah humbug crowd and those with a low sugar tolerance may find the movie more than they can stomach . others may be so enchanted that they feel like they can float out of the theater at the end . you've got mail runs about 2 : 00 . it is rated pg for mature themes . the picture could be enjoyed by anyone over 10 , and , although there's nothing to offend younger ones , they may well be bored . 
better bring an extra wrap with you to affliction , as the snowy new hampshire landscapes and the chilling story will likely send some shivers up your spine . about a year ago , atom egoyan's adaptation of banks's the sweet hereafter was number two on my best of the year list . this time writer and director paul schrader , whose previous pictures include light sleeper and touch , brings banks's affliction to the screen . attempting to resolve this mystery , if it is one , is half of the story . the other , and more compelling aspect , is wade's relationship with his father , glen , played in probably the best performance of his life by james coburn . nick nolte , who usually plays strong , macho characters , shows us his vulnerable side . to make matters worse for wade , he has a horrible toothache throughout most of the movie . like the recent movie , insomnia , in which lack of sleep affected the detective's judgement , the toothache begins to alter wade's . dafoe is good but underused on the screen . the narrator simply isn't needed , and the lines he is given tend too often to turn a profound scene into a trite one with the narration's pomposity . spacek doesn't get much screen time , just enough to make you wish directors would cast her more often . paul sarossy's cinematography is stunning . the snow and the gray skies all have a dreary and foreboding steel-blue cast to them . the tragically sad movie contains some powerful performances . while it isn't quite in the same league as the last russell banks adaptation , it is a marvelous and moving film in its own right . it is rated r for violence , profanity and one scene of dope smoking . the film would be fine for mature teenagers . 
the two senior citizens , as reveled from the beginning , are merely the figment of one man's vivid and playful imagination . alone one autumn in a park full of colorful trees , the man plays a spirited game of chess with himself . the small features in the animation from the man's knuckles to the inclination of the chess pieces enhance the story in subtle but important ways . in the span of just a few minutes , geri's game makes us care about a man who never speaks , and then surprises us with two ending twists . the effect is rather like speed-reading through a roald dahl novel . what a delicious appetizer for a sumptuous main course like a bug's life . geri's game deserves to be seen , and , since short films almost never get widely distributed , we should count ourselves lucky that pixar has found a way for us to be able to enjoy it . geri's game runs 4 minutes . it is rated g and would be fine for all ages . my son jeffrey , age 9 , and his buddies , who watched it with us , all thought the short was " really cool . " 
the movie is consciously structured like a musical piece . a wonderfully inviting movie is transformed into an astonishingly moving one in this fatal , last act . this physical enthusiasm will turn into one of jackie's trademarks and endear her to her fans . griffiths is excellent too in displaying , with her silent looks , the frustration of coping with a strong willed and famous sister . the movie bursts with luxurious concertos and rich sonatas , some shown in concert but most played innocuously and melodiously in the film's background . ( this isn't a concert movie . all of the stage performances combined account for little more than a quarter of an hour of the film's running time . ) and we're not talking about a one-night fling . the incident of the dirty laundry best illustrates this paradox . " that you could just be ordinary . " watson , who specializes in performances of complex and confounded characters , as she did in her oscar nominated role in breaking the waves , delivers another oscar characterization as jacqueline du pr ? . mesmerizing throughout , her work will reduce you to repeated tears by the end . jackie's life is perfectly bracketed in the movie . her first and last public performance with an orchestra has her playing the same instrument , and it's not the cello . brilliantly staged and marvelously acted , hilary and jackie is a triumph that deserves the same roaring applause from motion picture audiences that jackie received from her musical ones . it is rated r for profanity and sexuality and would be fine for teenagers . 
nerdy 15-year-old max fischer , played by a perfectly cast jason schwartzman , might appear to have it all . max's talents appear limitless . rushmore , written by wes anderson and owen wilson and directed by wes anderson , isn't a movie that's easy to pigeonhole . the trailers would lead you to believe that it's a comedy and probably a bad slapstick one . the movie is certainly funny , and , unlike what the trailers suggest , it isn't that over-the-top . in addition to the humor , the story has two quirky romances and some sweet undertones . most of all , it's a poignant tale about two people who have had limited success in their lives . although max excels at some things , academically and socially he's am unqualified disaster . in an empathetic performance , murray takes an understated approach . with just the rolling of his eyes , he imparts a deliciously mocking humor , revealing how bereft his character is of any joy in his life . the incident is reminiscent of the graduate , as is some of the rest of this unusual motion picture . olivia williams , the female lead from the postman , plays rosemary with an inviting sweetness . robert d . yeoman's cinematography gives the picture a bleak and austere look that has a fargoish feel to it . the images are colorful , yet flat and devoid of warmth , reflecting the desperation of the characters . it's not often that two award pins can summarize a person's life , but max's pins can . prominently displayed on his sport coat are his awards for " perfect attendance " and " punctuality . " if , as woody allen said , " 90% of life is just showing up , " max does have some major accomplishments to his credit . it is rated r for profanity and mature themes and would be fine for teenagers . 
( to those of you who are thinking that you already know the story , you probably don't know this one . even if you are one of the few that do , you'll gain fresh insights and see some chilling footage that you almost certainly haven't seen . ) chief among the stories you may know is that of the courageous swedish diplomat raoul wallenberg . the massive terror that the concentration inhabitants had to endure is hard to fathom so the film sticks to a few examples . the movie's most shocking new scene will undoubtedly evoke a strong visceral reaction in audiences . we have all seen images of emaciated victims of the nazi's cruelty , but they are usually black and white pictures of barely moving near-corpses . with malnourished bones and basically no fat , these men are reduced to a state where each step looks like it could be their last . he says he knows about the holocaust because he's seen the movies . he asks her casually if it really was as bad as the movies made it appear . " unfortunately , it was worse than the movies , " she replies with a look that suggests that she knows that he will never come close to understanding . it is rated pg-13 for graphic images and descriptions of holocaust atrocities and would be an excellent film for teenagers . 
" robin hood is it , you scumbag ? " the general was a modern day folk hero to dubliners in the 1980s and early 1990s . the general's writer and director john boorman , oscar nominee for deliverance , creates an astonishing and captivating portrait of an iconoclastic criminal . brendan gleeson from braveheart gives a marvelous and revealing performance as the general . with thin , stringy hair , a ruddy complexion and a belly that looks like it never met a pub it didn't love , the general doesn't look like anybody's idea of a hero . using his meaty hands , martin spends most of his time outdoors trying to cover his face , even though his easily recognizable physique belies this crude cover-up . the supporting cast , including adrian dunbar as martin's right-hand man , noel curley , and jon voight as inspector kenny , are all well chosen , but the movie excels on the strength of boorman's crisp direction and the complex and likable acting by gleeson . that the general was a rogue is never left to question , but the movie makes it easy to understand how such people can , nevertheless , earn the public's adulation . understanding what the director was trying to accomplish can perhaps best be seen in the medium of the presentation . boorman chose to shoot the movie in black and white . why ? the result is a fascinating and revealing portrait of a real and complex character , one whom you'll love even though you know you shouldn't . and in the process you get a better appreciation for what makes people admire the unadmirable . the general runs 2 : 09 . it is rated r for some violence and profanity and would be fine for teenagers . 
people sense that this is a seminal event that will alter the course of history . ( the locals in the funny and heartwarming script by lewis colick , based on homer h . hickam , jr . 's book , aren't all so impressed . actually , blue-collar is a misnomer for mineworkers . as the tenacious idealist homer hickam , jake gyllenhaal gives a winsome performance that will have you rooting every second for him to achieve his dreams . your lungs are certain to give out eventually , but you may die in an accident before then . energetic 1950's songs , like the ironic " that'll be the day when i die , " enliven the scenes , and the humorous script keeps the story firmly out of the maudlin area . the upbeat film has a genuineness and poignancy that will touch your heart . the boys' teacher , miss riley , played wonderfully in a key supporting role by laura dern , encourages their efforts . and the first place winners of the national science fair receive college scholarships . the story contains just enough technology discussions without becoming pedantic . chris cooper , in a performance that dares to be unlikable , plays the father with just a hint of a heart of gold . even if the outcome is never really in doubt , the story takes several quite surprising twists on its way to a satisfying conclusion that will cause many a teary eye . even if you feel like you've seen similar fictional stories before , they rarely have this emotional wallop . be sure and stay for the epilogue , in which old color movies of all of the lead characters are shown . it is rated pg for mild profanity , brief teen sensuality and alcohol use , and for some thematic elements . the movie would be fine for kids around 9 or 10 and up , depending how interested they are in serious movies . in the san jose area it will be playing at the amc and century theaters . 
he's not quitting , but since he doesn't like it , he has decided simply that he'll stop going into the office anymore . office space , the perfect movie for the cubical dwellers of the dilbert generation , has a low budget look , but its humor is right up there with last year's there's something about mary . whereas the latter used raunchy humor to get its laughs , office space uses dead-on , topical humor that is only sporadically risque to produce laughs so hard you may almost get sick . i know i got into so many laughing convulsions that i found myself choking . " did you get that memo ? " they chirp with dripping sincerity . in a small supporting role , gary cole , from a simple plan , delivers the best performance of the movie . the test is supposed to reveal what you really want to do with your life , but the question proves as useless as it is trite . the script mixes honest poignancy with crisp comedy that packs a wallop . even minor actors , like the one that plays a magazine salesman from the ghetto and who appears in a single , brief scene , are wonderfully funny . she works at one of those themed restaurants , in which she is required to wear at least 15 pieces of sloganed buttons and other accoutrements on her clothing . if she really loved her job as she should , she should want to wear more , as he keeps reminding her . as sweet and lovely as aniston was in the part , i kept thinking of parker posey from her role in a similar movie , clockwatchers , and how posey would have added a interesting harder edge to the part . after an amazing first act , the movie appears to have painted itself in a corner with the writer having milked the angst-filled employees idea for all it is worth , but then the movie takes off again with some quite surprising twists . only in the short concluding act does the story lose its footing a bit . still , the structure of the movie is relatively unimportant . it is in the small episodes that the movie delivers its punch . you'll have to see the movie to learn the trick . some movies have universal appeal , and some are more narrowly targeted . whereas i think most people will find office space quite funny , those who live in high tech meccas like the silicon valley or those who work in cubicles will undoubtedly love the picture . if you've tried reading the dilbert cartoons about the working world and have never been able to understand why there are funny , office space probably isn't the movie for you . it is rated r for profanity and brief sexuality and would be fine for teenagers . 
i asked him about the movie , and his mixed emotions about it showed . he complained bitterly that , since the studio never got behind the movie , it did poorly at the box office . opening as it did with the controversial scene above , one can partially understand why the studios back then were nonplussed . still , the delicious black comedy has such appeal , it is a shame that it wasn't more aggressively marketed . a good-spirited george segal gives a likable and inviting performance as detective brummel . " remember , i'm smarter than you , " christopher admonishes the detective . steiger clearly had great fun with his part . he told me that he was cocky back then . steiger gets to really chew up the scenery in no way to treat a lady , and he has the time of his life doing it . skirting the fine line of overacting , he doesn't go over it until the last scene , in which his pent-up energy explodes in an over-the-top scene in which director jack smight should have restrained him some . the movie wasn't just a vehicle for steiger to dazzle us with his acting feats . " a thought of yours would die of loneliness . " the audacious killer enjoys taking risks as much as developing new accents and disguises . as black comedies go , this is one of the sunniest . no way to treat a lady runs 1 : 48 . it is not rated but might be an r for , mainly off-screen , violence and mature themes and would be fine for teenagers . 
" would you like to go get a cup of coffee with me ? " no , these aren't lines from the play . first-time writer , director , editor and composer kurt kuenne does the nearly impossible in his amazing , first piece of work . he makes an intelligent movie about high school that speaks seriously and movingly to teen audiences as well as to parents and to moviegoers in general . although it does sometimes feel rather like an after-school special , the movie reduced me to tears on many occasions as it considers genuine subjects -- the joy of young love , what it means to be a brother , falling into the wrong crowd -- that most movies reduce to clich ? s . gorgeously filmed by dominique a . faix in a sometimes-hazy glow , the movie's look belies its lower budget . the talented and emotive stars have backgrounds mainly in television series . their performances are so natural and honest that you'll swear at times that they aren't acting . this means that their trials and tribulations will take on heightened immediacy and importance as you experience the characters' lives with them on the big screen . at one point i got really angry at the movie , but then i realized that my anger was misplaced . it was just that curt had done something foolish , as kids will , and i was upset when he made such a major mistake . the script was fine , it was the character that was pulling at my heart since curt had become a surrogate son . this sometimes joyous and sometimes devastating film does not try to manipulate your emotions for cheap laughs or tears . it presents real adolescence , warts and all , and that is what touches you deeply . the reserved curt , who is one of the least articulate kids on campus , surprises himself with a good answer . " why were you looking there ? " he asks with a big , awkward grin . this is the part that movies almost totally ignore . i can't think of another film where the relationship between two brothers brought me to tears , these being the bittersweet tears of joy . " excuse me , they're legally challenged ? " the film has so many good moral messages that i hate to point them out , lest those who might most benefit from them never see the picture . the drama ends in a devastating third act . the only problem with the movie is that the ending needs some tightening up . after a poignant and perfect ending , the story drifts on a bit longer for no real purpose as the filmmaker tries too hard to wrap up some of the small loose ends . this is a minor criticism for such an incredible first movie . write his name down , kurt kuenne , as you are going to hear a lot more about him if there's any sense left in hollywood . scrapbook runs a little too long at 1 : 50 . it is not yet rated but will probably be an r for some normal high school profanity , a little violence and mature themes . it can and should be seen by teenagers and anyone older . 
for today's cinematic feast , analyze this , we assemble the finest ingredients . for one leading actor , we put in one of hollywood's very best actors , robert de niro , who has been nominated for 6 oscars and won two . and for the other lead , we combine de niro with one of america's funniest comedians , billy crystal . for the chef , we use groundhog day's director , harold ramis , who , working with other writing talents , also comes up with a hilarious recipe . okay , so the right ingredients do not always produce a sumptuous meal . sometimes , they turn out incredibly bland ( father's day ) and other times , stomach curdling indigestible ( my giant ) . this time , however , the meal from appetizers to dessert is a real treat . well , twice . maybe 3 times . actually , he doesn't want to discuss it . the chemistry between the street-wise mr . v . and the intellectual ben is deliciously funny . " what is my goal here , to make you a happy , well-adjusted gangster ? " de niro and crystal , who are both at the top of their form in analyze this , have great chemistry together with both giving as good as he gets in the comedic battle of the actor titans . ramis has the good sense to have them play the comedy seriously , thus avoiding the overacting that a pure parody would have likely created . the best of the movie's sight gags comes in the wedding present that mr . v . sends the happy new couple . a vatican-sized fountain , complete with flying horses spouting water , adorns -- actually , totally dominates -- the sobol's front yard . some of the movie's best lines are unprintable . de niro , who has trouble keeping a straight face with his answer , provides a rationale that most people have probably not considered . the mark of a well-rounded movie is whether the supporting cast is offered as many good lines as the stars . by that measure , analyze this is certainly a success . " what kind of sandwich ain't too fattening ? " " a half a sandwich , " a never-weight-conscious jelly replies in disgust . comedies , even the best ones , frequently fizzle in the end , as happened in the recent office space . with melodramas , the conclusion is usually central to the narrative , but not so when it comes to humorous stories . analyze this manages to find a way to resolve the story's conflicts in a manner that is both satisfying and unusual -- a nice cap to a sweet comedy . analyze this runs 1 : 45 . it is rated r for profanity , brief sexuality and comic violence and would be fine for teenagers . 
in 1994 , director steve james's mesmerizing documentary hoop dreams was on the top of my best of the year list as well as on the top of both siskel's and ebert's . unlike many other films examining that era's racial strife , ghosts of mississippi for example , passing glory keeps the focus on the blacks and their struggle , rather giving most of the screen time to white racists . the prejudice of most of the whites in the area is compellingly presented , but they are not allowed to dominate the picture . braugher so naturally fits the part of the real-life father verrett , that he gives the picture an almost documentary realism . " i believe sports are overemphasized . " the film includes many tangible examples of the racism then present . ( i can remember the " coloreds only " signs from my childhood , although , where i grew up , they were taken away a half decade earlier than in this movie . ) the simple but powerful script by harold sylvester -- james said that john sayles helped with one of the rewrites -- is filled with lines of honest beauty . although most of the action in the movie happens off the courts , the basketball sequences are masterfully and excitingly presented . in the inevitable big game that ends the movie , there is an extremely controversial edit . with a big grin , he said that when he read the script he thought this works great in print but cinematically it'll never work . the director thought the cut was essential to his vision , and paul said the director was right . the director's whole movie is " right . " i can't wait for steve james's next picture . it is not rated but would perhaps be pg-13 for some profanity and mature themes and would be excellent for kids around 12 and up . 
fasten your seatbelts and put on your thinking caps because the wachowski brothers are back , and they're about to take you on a wild ride , one quite unlike any you've been on before . the matrix is the second film by the writing and directing duo of andy and larry wachowski , who last brought us the intriguing and unusual crime drama bound . this time they turn their considerable talents to making a fascinating science fiction film that is both a mind-boggling enigma and a thrilling action movie that rarely disappoints . in a movie that wants to challenge your assumptions , it is not clear who are the good guys and who are the bad and which side each is on . heck , it's not even clear if it's the past , the present or the future . it's even more complicated than that . is what we are watching just a game , a dream , a simulation or what ? see what i mean about thinking caps ? neo , played with just the right amount of bewilderment by a perfectly cast keanu reeves , has himself been on a search , and it's not clear who is the searcher and who is the searchee . " they're watching you . " trinity warns neo . a perplexed neo asks . at the heart of the mystery is something called the " matrix . " with colossal bad judgment , most film critics are revealing too much about what the matrix is . suffice it to say that it is bizarre and fascinating . the " x-files " is straightforward in comparison . the staging is marvelously imaginative . the energetic story moves with the power of a rocket on a trajectory to an unknown destination , and it isn't clear whether it's heaven or hell . shot by cinematographer bill pope in the same denuded color style as he used on bound , the film's look is striking . along with the sleek and cold , futuristic feel , the eerie music pulsates with a heavy bass foundation . the film's sound is awesome as are its special effects , the best of which have to do with literally dodging bullets . the film constantly surprises you . the bad guys , for example , have an extremely clever and creepy bugging device . " how do you define real ? " the wachowski brothers manage to make the abstract concepts of virtual reality and artificial intelligence , subjects hard to translate to the big screen , both fascinating and compelling . but what does it all mean ? usually confusion is the sign of a bad filmmaker who is unable to construct an understandable narrative . here , this exhilarating and challenging movie works precisely because it is a logical labyrinth . some movies leave you feeling cheated , but this will likely leave you with an exhausted satisfaction . if you have any energy left , the one word on your lips will likely be " wow ! " the matrix runs 2 : 10 , but feels much shorter . it is rated r for sci-fi violence and a little profanity and would be fine for teenagers . 
writer and director david mamet's the winslow boy , loosely based on this actual case , is gem of a picture in the spirit of the age of innocence . most of the action , such as it is , takes place on the sidelines . people talk about trials and possible trials rather than attending them . emotions are carefully held in check as they would have been in that era , but the absolutely exquisite performances by the ensemble cast insure that the characters' feelings are nonetheless intense even though displayed with subtlety and grace . you may remember rebecca pidgeon as the slick confidence scheme operator from mamet's last picture , the spanish prisoner . she brings a compelling precision and intelligence to all of her parts . in a movie with a lesser cast , hawthorne's masterful performance would have stolen the movie , but his turns out to be but one of many bright lights . " if you tell me a lie , i shall know , because a lie between us can't be hidden , " he warns . the boy , who looks like innocence personified , swears that he's not guilty . mamet , the master of ambiguity and unanswered questions , makes you wonder right away what the truth is and how that truth will be determined . as the charismatic and handsome sir robert , jeremy northam delivers an absolutely mesmerizing performance . a highly intelligent man who keeps his opponents and his supporters guessing what he will do next , sir robert is a master legal and political strategist and the type of busy man who allocates you only a few minutes of his precious time to see if it's worth ever seeing you again . the charged relationship between these two opposites , who have to pull together , turns out to be easily the most interesting of several subplots . like the rest of the movie , this relationship makes some twists you don't expect and avoids others that you do . although the script doesn't have much of mamet's signature dialog style , in which two characters exchange fast-paced staccato repartee , it has the overall structure he likes and has a host of fully developed characters . the heart-warming story is the type that frank capra would have loved . slowly and delicately the movie lays out a series of questions for us ? is the boy innocent , or might it not be as cut and dried as it seems ? the beauty and intelligence of the winslow boy methodically lays out questions where lesser movies would quickly provide easy answers . it is rated g and would be fine for kids old enough to be interested in serious subjects . 
in an age of sardonic titles , writer and director tom tykwer's run lola run ( lola rennt ) refreshingly means precisely what it says . lola , played with unbounded energy in an utterly captivating performance by franka potente , does exactly that , run almost the entire movie . and we're not talking about merely some yuppie jogging -- lola looks like she's in training for olympic sprints . with heavy music that pulsates to the same fast-paced beat as the storyline , the movie literally flies by you . one blink in this sliding doors on steroids , and you've missed two scenes and three key events . in fact , the story's funniest parts happen in little subplots that zip by so fast that they are almost impossible to follow . suffice it to say that this is a enormously fun film that will not put you to sleep -- in fact it has the effect of several large cups of heavily caffeinated coffee . " the game lasts 90 minutes . with mtv-style jump cuts , split screens and light-speed zooms , mathilde bonnefoy's editing and frank griebe's cinematography are two of the stars of this hyperactive motion picture , with heavy emphasis on the word " motion . " there is even an animated version of the ever-running lola that makes a few appearances . if manni doesn't come up with 100 , 000 marks from somewhere by the time the bad guys return in exactly twenty minutes , his life will be in jeopardy . one thing is certain , she doesn't have time for slow means of transportation , such taxis or bikes , instead she runs like the wind , which gives the whole movie a wonderfully free and energetic spirit . ( one can just imagine the casting of the part . you've heard of families who complain that all the father ever does is work . well , her father has a rather unusual solution , which is one of many delicious little stories in this black comedy . the story is structured into three wholly contained alternative versions of what could have happened after lola heard manni's plea . if you've ever been inclined to shake your head when you see someone with hair the color of a piece of fruit , this movie may disabuse you of that notion . even so , one still wonders what she looks like in her natural hair color . one thing is certain ; her look in this movie is a perfect match for her character . it is rated r for some violence and profanity and would be fine for teenagers . 
too bad he doesn't believe it . if ever a guy had it all , twice in fact , it is chris . without explosive behavior , the finely tuned film challenges your mind rather than manipulating your emotions with the cheap theatrics typical of most films . in a stunning performance that is purposely shallow and ambiguous , christian bale becomes chris . never letting chris degenerate into a caricature , bale makes his character easy to empathize with . in some ways like michael apted's 35up , the documentary that contrasts people's feelings about their life at various ages , metroland provides few easy answers . but it asks some pertinent and challenging questions . like the devil , toni provides many temptations for chris . playing chris's wife , marion , watson gives a preciseness and richness to a role that in lesser hands would fade into the background . chris is no match for marion's intellect . with complete confidence , she explains why he most certainly will be wed . " you're not original enough not to , " she tells him perspicaciously . as his lovely , free-spirited , french girlfriend annick , elsa zylberstein gives her character a sympathetic warmth that allows annick to be much more than just an extended fling . the casting is ideal in that she is only modestly better looking than marion , which makes chris's indecision about something other than surface beauty . metroland's strength comes from its remarkably sophisticated attitude about sexuality . the picture's completely natural portrayal of sex is funny , playful and quite erotic without ever being cheap or excessively explicit . adrian hodges's intelligent script , based on the novel by julian barnes , is filled with real characters that never say anything that rings false . hodges captures chris's predicaments with delicate precision . even the story's most minor characters are well drawn . sadly , he comments that , after that long , they should have realized that he didn't drink . " metroland isn't a place . it's a state of mind . " the only disappointing aspects of the production are the cinematography and the music . the former is dull and dingy , and the latter is bland and uninspired . absent these two , relatively minor criticisms , the film is an astute and intriguing story loaded with subtle but quite impressive acting . after seeming to have no satisfactory conclusion , the movie ends quite well . as you leave the theater , you may begin to wonder how the rest of chris's life will turn out . remembering that it was just a movie , your thoughts may then turn to anticipation for these actors' next movies , hoping that their future films will be as rewarding and satisfying as this one . it is not rated but might be an r for sex , nudity and profanity and would be acceptable for older and mature teenagers . 
" if you were a tree , what kind of tree would you be ? " becky's tree would have a good , solid christian trunk and provide shade for the handicapped . you can only write so fast at a screening , and this movie literally bursts with creative wit . ) as deftly directed by michael patrick jann and brightly scripted by lona williams , drop dead gorgeous is a chirpy satire done , ? la waiting for guffman , as a pseudo-documentary . the actors play every scene with complete earnestness , which adds immensely to the comedic effect . the biting , sardonic script works on both the verbal and the visual level . the ensemble casting has eight contestants vying for the local title . the script and the direction outshine the cast , although all of the acting is quite good . with food as big as the vast minnesota farmland , the locals are a well-fed lot . more recent winners seem to have taken a different attitude toward their food intake . gladys tells us that it's no sin city , as their video stores don't have any back rooms . guns are a different matter . the press kit , which manages to be almost as funny as the movie itself , provides various definitions for the phrases used in the story . " god given talent " is defined to be " synonymous with the size of your gun . " the script uses these incidents as just the backdrop upon which to paint the story . it seems that carrying beef jerky in your pocket while walking a massive canine isn't a particularly wise idea . the would-be beauty queens possess a wide variety of talent to dazzle the judges , none of whom has ever judged a contest before . many of their gifts are quite unusual . one does wrestling-match cheerleading , and another performs dramatic readings from soylent green . there is never any doubt , however , as there is in 20 dates , that the story is completely concocted . the picture , which relishes its political incorrectness , takes us on a fascinating journey to find out . the only problem with the movie is that it goes on about 10 minutes after its natural ending point . this last part is cute , but a crisper script would have had a bit more impact . in movies , especially comedies , shorter is almost always better . still , this is only a minor quibble . the film , as delivered , is a delightful , biting comedy that sets a perfect tone and never loses it . it is rated pg-13 for sexual situations , a little violence and some profanity and would be fine for kids around 12 and up . 
the mask of zorro's catherine zeta-jones firmly establishes her star power in entrapment . with a dazzling performance , she dominates the picture with absolute assurance and a bewitching smile . an incredibly beautiful actress , zeta-jones has much more than looks going for her . so intelligent and likable , she's an action star somewhat like diana rigg in her prime . zeta-jones has delicate , ballet-like movements , but her strength , which shines through her every frame in entrapment , is her charismatic confidence . never has a smile possessed more power . cast opposite zeta-jones is someone of equal intelligence , grace , and looks , sean connery . although showing his age a bit , he is still a force to be reckoned with . with great chemistry together , they engage in an acting battle that is as mesmerizing as the story itself . in the end , the old pro is outclassed by the younger rival , she's 30 , but both do themselves proud , delivering wonderful performances . as directed by jon amiel ( copycat ) and written by ronald bass ( rainman and black widow ) and michael hertzberg , the movie concentrates as much energy on the relationships as the action . the action is imaginative and exciting , but it can't compare with the human drama . zeta-jones steals every scene no matter how suave connery acts , and he delivers an excellent performance that is his best in years . the story contains several surprising twists , some of which you'll probably guess and others which you won't . your enjoyment of the picture doesn't depend on your being fooled . the movie will be just about as entertaining even if you figure out every turn in advance . some movies get tripped up by their implausibility , while others thrive , even if one must suspend disbelief . entrapment is in the latter category . in fact , implausibility can sometimes prove an advantage . although all we get to see is her backside , she certainly has an exceptional one . as mac's smart-mouthed assistant , ving rhames provides much of the story's humor . it's a small part , but rhames manages to make it seem larger . the film's only disappointment is maury chaykin , who plays a jabba the hutt clone that should have been eliminated as a bad distraction from what is otherwise a completely satisfying narrative . if zeta-jones continues improving at her current rapid rate of acceleration , by her next movie , jan de bont's the haunting with liam neeson , she should be astounding . it is rated pg-13 for a little violence , sexuality and profanity and would be fine for kids around 9 and up . i would have taken my 10-year-old if i had known how mild it was . 
she -- no surprise -- barks out the exact textbook definition from memory . tracy , as we will learn , knows the definition but not the meaning . writer and director alexander payne , whose last picture was the delicious satire citizen ruth , is back again with an even better satirical piece , election . although it plows some of the same fertile ground as rushmore , the more consistent election bears even more fruit . as the picture's star , reese witherspoon plays the anal-retentive tracy flick with a nuanced performance that's light-years ahead of her marvelous work in pleasantville . dressed in conservative tweed skirts with dull , avocado-colored stockings , she is prim , proper and prissy . if there were an academy award for body language , witherspoon would win it hands down for this performance . the best comes when the excessively serious tracy gets some good news . matthew broderick , reminding us again after the godzilla debacle what an excellent actor he can be , plays award-winning teacher jim mcallister . the subtle script takes a chirpy , upbeat attitude to its black comedy material . the editor freeze-frames the characters , especially tracy , in the most unflattering ways . tracy may project utter confidence and some wide-eyed innocence , but these freeze-frames show the ugliness that lies just below the surface . the movie really shines in its small touches . the pre-election prayer scene is quite illuminating . it might not be whom you suspect . the screenwriters manage to make the story enthralling even though they make what looks like a mistake and let the story go on past its natural conclusion . it is rated r for sex , profanity and a brief dope smoking scene and would be fine for older teenagers . 
arthur is played in a dazzling performance by rupert everett from my best friend's wedding . " do you always understand what you say ? " " if i listen attentively , " he replies . writer and director oliver parker's richly sardonic an ideal husband is a brilliant and biting adaptation of the classic oscar wilde play . thoroughly entertaining , the film moves from one scene of deliciously subtle humor to another . when you're not laughing out loud , you'll be grinning from ear to ear . " distressing little time for sloth or idleness . " oscar wilde is a master of self-deprecating humor and saying what everyone thinks but wouldn't dare say . this comedy of manners and misadventures has been adapted before . in 1969 , the bbc , for example , did a fine production starring jeremy brett and susan hampshire . yet , none of the previous attempts had an ensemble cast like this one , which is filled with many big name actors and previous oscar nominees . driver demonstrates considerable talent in the movie as the master of the reaction shot . the picture's look is a joy to behold . the sumptuous mansions are filmed in the lush tones of dark english oak paneling . " morality is simply the attitude that we adopt to those whom we dislike , " arthur lectures gertrud . the entire movie is peppered with such aphorisms , which puts the audience through a delightful cycle of laughing , thinking , and then laughing again . an ideal husband is a treat for the heart , the mind and the funny bone . it is rated pg-13 for brief sensuality and distant nudity . although there isn't anything to offend anyone , a child would probably have to be at least 11 to be interested . 
in an inspired bit of casting , julia roberts plays julia roberts in a princess and commoner story titled notting hill . what's amazing is how likable and vulnerable she makes this poor little rich girl . as exquisitely directed by roger michell and smartly scripted by richard curtis , the movie easily transcends its highly contrived setup . this is a comedic romance that makes you fall in love with love . and it's a romantic comedy that produces huge laughs through dialog that relies on wry wit rather than crude humor -- the polar opposite of there's something about mary . for grant , acting's master of awkwardness , playing thacker would seem as natural as it is for roberts to play scott . indeed it is , but both actors rise above roles in which autopilot performances might have sufficed . their chemistry is a joy to behold , and their acting has wonderful subtlety and grace . i know how thacker must have felt . ] " surreal , but nice . " this may already sound like every man's fantasy , and , if you're going to dream , dream big . when she comes over and plants a big kiss on him , i thought it might be a daydream sequence , but it wasn't . " right , no one , " he responds with sad seriousness . " i mean , i'll tell myself sometime , but i won't believe it . " his irritating flatmate spike is played in an over-the-top performance by rhys ifans . spike , with his prominent gold tooth , uncombed hair , scruffy beard and perpetually dirty feet , supplies much of the movie's more outlandish humor . a little of spike can go a long way , which the editor seems , thankfully , to have realized . as you can guess , the acting princess does call the bookshop pauper back . perhaps something simple like tea at the ritz ? i wonder if i could have used some of his questions ? ] >from this point their romance goes on and off . the players take the movie to a level that should not be possible given the triteness of the basic setup . one suspects that if your brother brought julia roberts home to dinner it could well end up just as it does in the movie . think about it . if you've had a relationship with julia roberts , don't you think you'd have a bit of trouble trying to find someone else afterwards ? after scenes that are alternately sweet , funny , humorous , romantic and poignant , the story finally comes to a close . as you realize it's time for the characters to leave , you begin to miss them . coming up with the movie's most energetic moments , he ends it with an exhilarating sequence that dazzles your mind and heart . this happened to me the second i opened the door to exit the theater . a reporter wanted my opinion of the film . pointing out how similar this real life experience was to the scene in the movie , i asked where julia roberts was . he said she was in the lobby waiting for me . life in this case , i am sad to report , did not imitate art . notting hill runs 2 : 03 but feels much shorter . it is rated pg-13 for some sexual situations and a little profanity and would be fine for kids around 11 and up . my son jeffrey , aged 10 , who saw the film back in california , said he really enjoyed it and gave it * * * . he said he laughed a lot . his only complaints were that he didn't understand some of the humor , and he didn't like some of the bad language . 
john sayles ( lone star ) is one of the world's best cinematic storytellers . typically writing , directing and editing , as he did in limbo , he makes movies the way he wants . in a time of plodding plots and silly scripts his works stands head and shoulders above most of the others . with meticulous stories containing heartfelt , but never overdrawn , characters , his work has a subtle honesty that leaves you in awe of his talent . sayles's movies have a strong sense of place and community . the latter is the subject of sayles's tale . joe gastineau , played with an endearing reserve by sayles veteran david strathairn , is -- or more accurately was -- a fisherman . he's a middle-aged guy who has never married and doesn't feel the need to talk about why . he's the sort who keeps quiet as much because it's a part of his nature as because there is anything to hide . her life has been coming apart at the seams lately , which for her is pretty much status quo . sayles , a sublime stager of subtle movements , has mastrantonio give a knowing smile and raise her eyebrows in a tentative , furtive motion in order to signify her romantic interests . later joe and donna will kiss a few times , but nothing will surpass the erotic spark of that earlier look she gives him . the chemistry between these two very different types is genuine and tender . " things where you wear gear rather than clothing , i don't do , " she explains . the story's first half , which is a little too slow and cluttered with extraneous characters and subplots , is full of ominous tales of horror . and then there's the winter . many end up blowing their brains out through the depression caused by the cold , the unrelenting darkness and the lack of gainful employment . the second half of the story , when the inevitable tragedy strikes , is when the film really comes into its own . the story's emotional impact is intense even while the tragedy has an undeniable tranquility to it . the characters , which were well developed in the first half , are finely polished in the last half . the show's ending will be talked about for years . suffice it to say that i thought it was absolutely perfect . it is probably proof , however , that sayles doesn't test screen his movies or , if he does , he promptly throws away the survey cards . limbo runs 2 : 00 . it is rated r for some violence and a little profanity and would be fine for kids 12 and up . 
so what is it that makes the new tarzan so special ? tarzan , disney's big , animated , summer movie , has great songs , nearly perfect casting , and some funny dialog that make it a wonderful choice for the entire family . but it is the movie's animation , a technological tour de force that uses computers to enhance , not replace , traditional drawings , that almost upstages everything else . the animators use a new computer technique that the disney studios call " deep canvas " to make the background images at once more stunningly realistic and imaginatively abstract . words don't do it justice , but i'll try . picture a foreground with carefully drawn , brightly-colored characters , one in which you can feel the painstaking work that animators put into every cel . that they researched and rethought every human and animal movement is obvious with their incredible attention to detail . these foreground figures are then integrated into a lavish background that is the picture's piece de resistance . with equal parts of van gogh and renoir , the lush , fog-shrouded , green-forested jungle looks so lovely and believable that you want to reach out and touch it , half expecting that a museum guard will arrest you if you try . its 47 adaptations are exceeded only by " dracula . " how about a movie made by disney that exceeds even their own high standards ? welcome to disney's breathtaking instantiation of the tarzan legend . glenn close , a five-time oscar nominee , is an acting chameleon , taking on roles from sexual predators to nurturing mothers . if you were going to be raised by an ape mother , glenn close would be the type you'd want , which is exactly what disney thought , so they cast her as kala , tarzan's adopted ape mother . probably better than any other tarzan , this version does an extremely convincing job of giving tarzan animal characteristics . it is easy to get so mesmerized by tarzan's movements that you lose track of everything else . keane's energetic tarzan doesn't just swing from the vines , he surfs the branches . this single piece of inspiration gives tarzan's movements an unbounded and joyous spirit that is exciting to watch . the casting of the show is particularly inspired . tony goldwyn , as the adult tarzan , breathes life and charm into his part without overpowering it with needless bravado . the scene in which tarzan mimics jane is the film's comedic high point . the bulk of the film's comedic legwork is done by minnie driver as jane and rosie o'donnell as terk , tarzan's gorilla pal . the charismatic driver is wonderfully appealing as the vulnerable but tough jane . too bad they aren't in many scenes together as it would have made for an interesting comedic contest . disney , as it has done from bambi to the lion king , has dared to introduce genuine tragedy into a kids' movie . life is like that . but the story doesn't dwell on it , and the film is the stronger for its introduction into the storyline . tarzan's fast paced , high-spirited high jinks are certain to delight one and all . visually astounding , the film is a mesmerizing treat worthy to be counted among disney's best . tarzan runs 1 : 29 . it is rated g . although there some moments during the gorilla hunt that might briefly scare the youngest viewers , the picture is fine for all ages . my son jeffrey , age 10 , said he was impressed by disney's work on the film and gave it * * * . he liked the way young tarzan and terk looked and thought that they were really cute together . his only complaint was about the sad part . his friend nickolas , also 10 , thought the movie was okay and gave it * * . he said that he liked everything but the ending . 
are our lives merely a collection of random walks that by middle age have culminated in varying degrees of success or failure ? do our socioeconomic backgrounds determine our destinies ? the mesmerizing film 42 up provides many illuminating and sometimes quite surprising answers to these and other such eternal questions . the series is the longest running documentary in the history of the cinema . and the best . so what is the prevailing mood in 42 up ? middle-age contentment . using the jesuit maxim , " give me a child until he is 7 , and i will give you the man , " the series posits that a child's future is already set by the age of 7 . the overwhelming conclusion one comes to on viewing the movie , which is structured with overlapping interviews of each person at differing ages , is how remarkably prescient we are as young children . if kids set their minds to accomplish something , even if it sounds foolish or capricious , it's likely to happen , albeit perhaps not with the degree of success imagined . another revelation is how we are all different and yet similar . even in a class society like britain , all of the participants , with one exception , worked their way to middle class or better . most have several kids , including those who earlier firmly and unequivocally renounced ever having kids . although their collective wisdom is fascinating , their individual stories are even more compelling . the interviews are generally conducted with the spouse , if any . with his thick cockney accent and his broad smiles , he's both the hardest to understand and the most likeable . a cherubic rapscallion who seems straight from central casting , he's made a little money on the side with minor acting jobs in television shows . a rebellious chain smoker at age 21 , suzy isn't the least bit interested in kids or anything else . never feeling like he belongs to either race , he's a quiet type with a simple philosophy -- " i just want to be like anybody else , nothing too marvelous . " with one of the most generous of spirits that you'd ever want to meet , he spends his lifetime in the service of others . what is most striking about them is how they aged so differently . his only regret is that he is more famous for the movies than for his scientific accomplishments . their predictive accuracy is amazing . john , a qc , and charles , a documentary editor , declined to take part in this episode . the film draws to an end with the 11 discussing the blurring of class distinctions in england and the effect of the series on their lives -- most claim to dread it but tolerate it . 35 up was one of the very best movies of this decade . 42 up , although almost as insightful as 35 up , doesn't pack the same emotional wallop . an extremely rewarding film , 42 up suffers only in comparison to its immediate predecessor . 42 up is an incredible film that deserves a wide audience as it has so much to say to all of us . it is not yet rated but will probably be pg for some mature themes and would be fine for any kid old enough to be interested . you don't want to miss it . 
the late stanley kubrick had a gift for laying raw our emotions in a way that could make us quite uncomfortable as we examine our normally suppressed feelings . in other films like dr . strangelove and full metal jacket , the subject was militaristic patriotism . in eyes wide shut , writer and director kubrick tackles a subject , sexuality , which american audiences aren't used to considering seriously . although films like there's something about mary and american pie use sex for comedic purposes and x-rated films are available for explicit sexual fantasies , most movies avoid any serious treatment of sexuality . americans , after all , are quite comfortable with movie murder but much less so with cinematic sex . this scene is an omen and arguably the key one in the movie , for it poses the question of whether such risky sexual activities are worth it , even if the price is devastatingly high . when he's propositioned by a friendly streetwalker , he accompanies her home , not quite sure if he thinks this is a good idea or not . in a movie that's surprisingly funny at times , the hooker needs him to place his order . " what do you want to do ? " " what do you recommend ? " he finally asks as he would of the sommelier when choosing just the right wine at one of the fancy restaurants he frequents . ( the brief orgy scene is the one in which american audiences are " spared " the embarrassment of seeing intercourse . we have digital fig leaves in the form of extra bodies inserted in front of some of the obviously copulating couples . these few seconds of changes keep the movie from getting an nc-17 . the rest of the world gets the director's cut . if the characters had committed murder instead of sex , no cover-up would have been required . ) as has been widely reported , kidman's performance is stellar and will undoubtedly get her at least a nomination for an oscar . her acting stays right on the edge . cruise's acting is no less impressive . larry smith's oversaturated , grainy cinematography depicts well the grime that has entered the characters' heretofore-spotless life . jocelyn pook's loud , staccato piano score for the film reminds us of bill's fear and panic , as if we can hear his heart beating out of his chest . the rich picture leaves us with so much left to discuss , the film's many religious allusions being just one topic out of many . " it always does . until it doesn't . but you know that , don't you ? " what will happen next is undoubtedly much more complex than the last scene implies . in this movie , to which there will most certainly not be a sequel , it is left to audiences to decide the fate of the tragic couple . in a film that revels in its ambiguity , the ending is the most intriguingly ambiguous of all . the best filmmakers provide the best questions , not the easiest answers . it is in the not-quite-resolved conclusion that this film serves as a fitting tribute to kubrick's legacy . it is rated r for strong sexual content , nudity , language and some drug-related material and would be fine for teenagers only if they are older and mature . 
bruce willis , who costars with osment , delivers one of the strongest performances of his career and still manages to be upstaged by the talented youngster . " the most amazing child actor i've ever seen " is how willis refers to osment in the film's press notes . " i rank this kid up there with the best adult actors i've worked with over the years . " after seeing the child's brilliant work in this remarkable film , willis's observations are easy to agree with . the sixth sense , written and directed with subtly and grace by m . night shyamalan , doesn't fit neatly into any genre , no matter what the trailers might lead you to believe . perhaps the best way to define it is to say what it isn't . it's not a horror movie , although there are some frightening images . the script is too interior and intellectual to be considered a traditional thriller , but you will find yourself on the edge of your seat . the movie isn't a comedy even though there are plenty of appreciated opportunities for laughter to break the film's intensity . finally , it isn't a romance , but love is a major theme . so what is it ? any category you put it in would be needlessly limiting and inappropriate . suffice it to say that it's a film that will surprise and mesmerize you . it's the sort of film that's liable to elicit a " wow " at the conclusion . this review will give only the briefest of outline to the story , less than the trailers provide , so that there is no fear of revealing any of the fascinating details of the plot . " you're nice , but you can't help me , " cole tells malcolm . in his tenderest performance ever , willis shows his empathy for the boy's troubles . but is there any truth in this ? tak fujimoto's dark , intense cinematography reflects the somber tone of the two protagonists' troubles . the complex and rewarding script blends in a strong life-affirming aspect to the melancholy story . the touching film moves with great delicacy as it reveals its truths . the cinematic equivalent of a page-turner , the movie keeps your eyes glued to the screen . the writer respects the intelligence of the audience , saving the answers to many of the key questions that the story poses for as long as possible . as the ending credits roll , you'll be busy discussing the film with everyone around you . one subject of the conversation will undoubtedly be that you want to see it again . it's that good and that intriguing . the sixth sense runs 1 : 54 . it is rated pg-13 for intense thematic material and violent images and would be fine for teenagers . an r rating might have been more appropriate . 
bobby , whose recent films include the yugo story , is a no nonsense filmmaker . kit will never know he's in the movie , and most of chubby rain's cast and crew don't know that kit doesn't know . the inventive and resourceful bobby has an answer for every problem . need some lighting for a shot ? steve martin's script is a classic bit of comedic writing with a long list of memorable lines . the most amazing part of the script is that it gets laughs the old-fashioned way without benefit of flatulence jokes , bathroom humor or bodily fluids . the movie deliciously skewers tinseltown . bobby reveals such secrets as the fact that every movie costs exactly $2 , 184 -- which is what he has saved away . " but , i'm not from ohio . " she takes what could be a slightly sleazy part and turns it into a sweet and charming one instead . murphy shows an acting dexterity and a risk-taking openness that's impressive . jiff blushes or cries , not as an act , but because he's embarrassed or scared . " would you be willing to cut your hair ? " " yes , but it's usually better if someone else does it , " jiff replies sincerely , missing the point of the question entirely . he does have movie experience ; he says that he's a frequent renter at blockbuster . as the movie advances towards a climax worthy of chariots of fire , the energetic pacing reaches fever pitch . in a sort of epilogue , we get to glimpse bobby's next movie , which is so outrageously bad that an uncontrollable fit of laughter is the most likely response . bowfinger and both of the movies within it are thoroughly satisfying . even if they charged you for all three , it would be worth the triple admission price . it is rated pg-13 for sex-related material and language and would be fine for kids 10 and up . my son jeffrey , age 10 , thought the movie was hilarious and gave it a full * * * * . 
" question i've always wanted to ask , " she muses aloud , " what color is my wind ? " if you laughed at that joke or any of the other oscar jokes in the past decade , you probably have comedy writer bruce vilanch to thank . the word in hollywood is that no oscar or other celebration can happen these days unless they get bruce , hence the title of andrew j . kuehn's hilarious documentary . as fast paced as the best monologue , the movie flies by as laughter fills the theater . kuehn has just the right touch with the movie's mixture , helped enormously by vilanch who even looks and acts as funny as his classic comedy lines . looking like a muppet version of the pillsbury doughboy , his large economy-sized head holds two mops full of scraggly hair and fluffy beard . the director takes interviews in which stars like goldberg , billy crystal and robin williams ham it up as they reminisce with vilanch and mixes them with live examples of the routines he has crafted for them . part of the film concerns the preparation of the material . vilanch subscribes to 65 newspapers and magazines and is a voracious reader , always trolling for possible material . " there is no writing , only rewriting . " he shows us some of the script versions for one telecast with each printed on different colored paper . watching vilanch at work , you get a glimpse of true genius . " he's given more great lines to celebrities than any coke dealer , " nathan lane says with a grin . one of the clips in the documentary shows one such collaboration . his one-line acceptance speech was hysterically funny and typically vilanch : " i'm very sorry i didn't have to sleep around to win this award . " it is not rated but might be an r for language and sexual innuendo . it would be fine for kids 12 and up . 
the radiantly inviting my life so far by director hugh hudson ( chariots of fire ) is a good-spirited film about a family . but is it a family film ? not really . it doesn't quite fit the mold of what we've come to expect for something labeled a " family film , " not that it wouldn't be appropriate for kids at least 10 , the age of the story's protagonist . the story doesn't have much in the way of slapstick and the comedy is written with a sharp wit that never talks down to the audience . nicely framed with dramatic flourishes , the story is filled with touching humor that reminds us of our own childhood , especially when we first heard about sex . told without a single crude or vulgar moment , the sweet tale has a refreshing honesty and , most of all , an innocence that is light-years away from raunchy films like american pie . the intelligent script by simon donald is based on part of denis forman's autobiography . with the richness of one of the best masterpiece theater television series ( which is meant as a high compliment ) , the movie evokes a warmly nostalgic feeling for a time that few of us have ever experienced . as much a hobby as a business , the factory churns out moss products ranging from bandage substitutes to soap to cigars , not all of them successes . reasonably tolerant , edward only gets really worked up about the playing of jazz , which he loathes . both spouses start off as one-note characters , but slowly and subtly evolve into much richer and complex ones . mastrantonio , especially , gives a graceful performance that shows how much an actress can reveal about her character while keeping her emotions in check , as they would have been in that era . the talented supporting cast further enriches the production . the movie concerns the year that fraser was 10 . although many incidents occur , the most interesting of the lot surround the effect of fraser's reading habits . the genial comedy , which doesn't have or need much of a plot , finds a perfect little scene to wrap it up . when the ending credits start to roll , you feel thankful that the pettigrews have allowed you to spend time with them . the experience has felt more like a visit than a movie . my life so far runs just 1 : 33 . it is in scottish english which sometimes requires careful listening . the movie is rated pg-13 for sexual content , including some nude pictures . it would be fine for kids around 10 and up , but in order to appreciate the subject matter more , 12 and up would be better . my son jeffrey , age 10 , gave the movie * * and thought the story flipped around too much . john's twin steven , who gave the picture * * * 1/2 , really liked the story and thought it was funny . watching them , you could see that , like the 10-year-old in the picture , they sometimes felt uneasy about the ( non-explicit ) sexual content of the movie . 
walt disney presents a g-rated movie by david lynch . yes , that david lynch . the one that did blue velvet , twin peaks and lost highway and about the last director you'd expect to hook up with disney to do a live-action , g-rated film based on a true story . what's next ? brian de palma with a sequel to bambi ? every week , it seems , brings another absolutely trivial coming-of-age movie featuring a bunch of crude , oversexed teens . in stark contrast , the straight story is a closing-of-age story filled with a generous spirit and wonderfully sympathetic characters . it never toys with your emotions or insults your intelligence . at the heart of the story , richard farnsworth ( the grey fox ) gives an oscar worthy performance as 73-year-old alvin straight , a man on a mission . farnsworth with his intense eyes and the small curls of his lips displays alvin's resoluteness and his suppressed pain . every furrow of his brow contains some hidden thought and long repressed regret . in a highly nuanced performance , farnsworth with tiny gestures reveals much but suggests more . everyone says rose , who has an unusual speech impediment , is slow , something that alvin doesn't buy . the movie's delights are in the rich vignettes about the people alvin encounters . a road picture of a very different type than you normally see , it is that rare movie which you can describe as slow and mean it sincerely as a compliment . alvin teaches you to take life one step at a time and relish every moment . " the worst part of being old is remembering when you were young , " alvin replies with sad , longing eyes . " why should i be afraid of an iowa cornfield ? " lynch , eschewing the many opportunities to turn the story maudlin , builds a mesmerizing picture that warms your heart without ever attempting to manipulate it . the touching story brings you close to a true individual and reminds you of what our elders are capable . by the end , you feel like you've taken an almost spiritual journey with alvin and have gotten to witness some superlative acting in the process . it is rated g , and , although it would be fine for all ages , younger kids will probably find the pacing too slow to keep their interest . 
as an inviting enigma , dean gives a deceptively seductive performance . he almost hypnotizes the audience with his smooth , blank slate of a face . dr . mumford , a world-class listener , possesses such subdued charm that people are compelled to tell him their most hidden secrets , something it's obvious the doc must have a few of himself . in a story that isn't in any hurry to get anywhere , the movie charms with its cornucopia of well-written and superlatively acted characters . one of the film's delights is that you haven't any idea where it is headed . its one mystery is fairly obvious . full of wry humor that produces a host of small laughs and constant grins , the script is perhaps its biggest star . ( " the only problem i had with degenerate , self-destructive behavior is that i couldn't get enough of it . " ) the movie has an almost magical aspect to it that you can't quite put your finger on . lit by cinematographer ericson core to look like a norman rockwell painting , the town of mumford manages to look appealing even though it conceals a hotbed of neuroses . davis gives a convincing performance as someone so tired that she can barely move . " most people do . " " i'd better not , " she replies as if exhausted by speaking . " i'd fall right asleep . besides , it's probably too early for me to start sleeping with you . " ( " it's shocking ! " you heard it here first . " ) in a movie filled with gems , it's hard to pick out a favorite . it is rated r for sex-related images , language and drug content . it is a good-spirited film that would be fine for teenagers . 
for the aubracs , it is may 14th . lucie aubrac , based on a true story , weaves a fascinating tale of the french resistance in world war ii that's both an intriguing thriller and a touching love story . avoiding the clich ? s and excessive melodrama normally associated with such stories , writer/director claude berri creates an intensely moving story full of subtlety and grace . the result is a story that has a freshness and an honesty that allows the viewer to see that era in ways that he probably hasn't before . the first part of the story contains scenes of the troubling normalcy of the life that many lived . an absolutely perfect day if you could just forget that you might be tortured and killed at any moment . ) with a brow creased by horrific worries , auteuil , in a delicately nuanced performance , displays the husband's pain and desire . as the strong wife , carole bouquet gives an equally strong performance . the chemistry between them is genuine , and both avoid numerous opportunities to overact . lucie aubrac never manipulates the viewer's emotions , but don't be surprised if you get swept up in the tragedy and the intrigue . full of tension , the story relies on the small events more than the larger ones to create its excitement . a rewarding movie , it is filled with memorable , sympathetic characters for whom you'll be rooting . the film is in french with english subtitles . it is rated r for violence and would be fine for teenagers . 
featuring an acting tours de force by edward norton and brad pitt , fight club , the much anticipated film by director david fincher ( seven ) , proves worthy of its hype . although not for everyone due to its pervasive strong violence , the mesmerizing film shocks , delights and surprises the viewers at every turn . based on chuck palahniuk's novel , the brightly written script by jim uhls literally bursts with memorable lines that will have you laughing and thinking . " i flipped though catalogs and wondered what kind of dining set defines me as a person , " he tells us . in easily the funniest sequence in the movie , jack seeks meaning though self-help groups . no one questions whether he should be there . tyler , a free-spirit , a modern urban terrorist and a seductive conman , is such a memorable character that you may never again be able to meet someone named tyler without thinking of tyler durden . norton and pitt are perfectly cast . " this is your life , and it's ending one minute at a time , " the philosophical tyler tells jack . the movie repeats this message so often that you almost expect an endorsement on the marquee from anarchist international . the movie takes one surprising twist and turn after another . be prepared to look at the floor a lot during some of the movie's gory scenes . filled with nihilist humor , the film is vicious and viciously funny . ( in a bit of life reflecting art , i left the big city screening room in which i saw the movie and went to use a payphone on the street . an angry , tough-looking guy threatened to beat the crap -- he used another term -- out of me for using " his " payphone . i said i was sorry . after seeming to have run out of ideas , the film's ending turns out instead to be its creative high point . it's the sort of film that will leave you exhausted but glad you came . it is rated r for disturbing and graphic depiction of violent anti-social behavior , sexuality and language . it should have been rated nc-17 and is not appropriate for teenagers unless they are older and can handle extremely horrific images . 
in a picture that deserves to be remembered at oscar time , the insider tells a mesmerizing , true story that's in equal measure drama , thriller and mystery . confidential ) and al pacino , all three of whom should be nominated by the academy , the film has your eyes glued to the screen as it examines some universal truths about integrity and risk . with never a dull moment , the story still manages to take the time to consider the entirety of people's lives and families and delve into the minutia of a journalistic investigation . the movie will and should be compared favorably to the classic journalistic investigation story , all the president's men . brilliantly scripted by eric roth , based on a magazine article by marie brenner titled " the man who knew too much , " and containing a sterling supporting cast , the movie has only one possible flaw -- it's longer than normal at over two and a half hours . its length , however , turns out to be both necessary and beneficial . any scene that looks like cinematic fat will prove later to be a key to setting up other parts of the story . in most movies the characters have either a work life or a home life , but not both . this film takes the time to show both , and their interactions prove essential to understanding the motivation of the protagonists . the whole situation is extremely complex as real life situations tend to be . pacino is perfectly cast as the hard-charging reporter who'll do anything so long as it doesn't jeopardize his source . bergman is as tough and honest as they come . nearing retirement , wallace comes across as possessing good intentions but fatal flaws as he worries too often about " other considerations . " crowe with his physical mannerisms makes palpable the tenseness of the situation . the suitably ominous but never overpowering music by pieter bourke and lisa gerrard add immensely to the production . dante spinotti's moody , shadowy cinematography lends an ominous feeling of impending doom . " guys like you are in short supply . " the movie makes it obvious why . if you have a loving family and expensive possessions , would you be willing to chance losing them all forever , just because your integrity demanded it ? for most of us it's not a tough call . in reality , most of us would pass . it is for just that reason that this film , with its superlative acting , becomes so engrossing . the insider runs 2 : 37 . it is rated r for language and mature themes and would be fine for teenagers . 
this would-be m ? nage ? trois is complicated in that maxine shares lotte's passion but not craig's . whew . is this one wacky setup or what ? john cusack , a comedic master of both action and reaction shots ( most actors excel at only one ) , plays craig . his wife , lotte , is played with offbeat panache by a glamorous actress successfully made to look plain and completely different . since i didn't recognize her , i'm not naming her here in hopes that you will be just as surprised as i was . the absolutely hilarious and completely off-the-wall movie , being john malkovich by director spike jonze and writer charlie kaufman , takes one surprising step after another . with its escher print of a story , the energetic movie winds and twists with great glee . to get there , as any of the building's occupants can show you , all you need do is punch the emergency button on the elevator just after the seventh floor . sitting , however , poses no difficulties since the furniture is all of normal size . " so what do you do ? " " check ! " ( a running joke is that most people have no idea who he is , nor what any of his movies are . malkovich is great , finding one way after another to poke fun at himself . and if you think the great actor's time is all spent in intellectual pursuits , you'll be surprised to see him discussing bath towel colors with a catalogue sales rep on the phone , as he looks with displeasure at the leftover chinese food in his fridge . there are several good cameos . the more malkovich denigrates maxine , the more sheen wants to have sex with her . sheen's hair toward the end is embarrassingly and hilariously awful . malkovich does . i'm not about to reveal the answer but be prepared to laugh and laugh hard . so where do you land when your 15 minutes on the malkovich-mind roller coaster is up ? don't ask ; i don't know . the picture never explains why it works this way , but it's funny , no matter how often they show it . just go with the flow . don't question ; just laugh and enjoy it . still , i would have liked a small mention in the credits that somewhere in their subconscious the film must have been inspired by lewis carroll . being john malkovich runs 1 : 52 . it is rated r for sex and language and would be fine for teenagers . 
in a tale of love expressed and love repressed , the protagonists' emotions are exquisitely nuanced . the screen adaptation of jane austen's mansfield park surpasses even the highly successful emma and sense and sensibility , thanks to the talented writing and direction of patricia rozema ( i've heard the mermaids singing ) . the beauty of this lavish and gorgeous production isn't in the costumes or the buildings , it is in the acting and the script . unspoken words express powerful although repressed emotions , and spoken words , thanks to the original austen novel and to rozema's screenplay , are stronger still . like most austen novels , the basic plot is that of a soap opera . this is not meant as a put-down , but as a fact . austen took what should be mundane and raised it up several orders of magnitude with the depth of her writing . still , the basic structure is one of the convoluted love affair in which everyone seems to love someone else . the free-spirited fanny price is played with an endearing charm by australian actress frances o'connor . some may think that the brief sex scene and the brief female-to-female flirtation some may think will cause austen to turn over in her grave , but the scenes are mild and short and fit perfectly within the context of the storyline . rozema's staging possesses real magic . in another inspired approach , the movie has the nineteenth century equivalent of a musical telegram , complete with fireworks and flying doves . " it could have ended differently , i suppose , but it didn't , " fanny reflects at the conclusion . and the most remarkable thing about this engrossing character study is that , if had ended differently , it probably would have worked just as well . the journey itself is truly the reward . it is not rated but might be r for one brief scene of sex and nudity and would be fine for kids around 12 and up . 
i'm not saying , but the mayhem that they cause when crossing in toy story 2 is likely to send your audience into a laughing pandemonium as it did ours . part of the charm of the sequel is that we already know and love the characters . the additional casting just adds icing to an already scrumptious cake . the whole point of the opening seems to be to let the crew at pixar animation studios dazzle us with their technical prowess . if that was indeed their goal , they succeeded handsomely . the visual and sound effects are incredible . look out george lucas , a bunch of toys are after your space franchise . this elaborate opening diversion , which the plot manages to make fit into the context of a simple story about andy ( john morris ) and his toys , soon gives way to more familiar surroundings . pixar uses its ever increasing technological sophistication to enhance the settings this time but without changing them . the story , which doesn't quite measure up to the original in the number of memorable lines , does excel in the quality of the physical comedy with the aforementioned road crossing being its pi ? ce de r ? sistance . the screenplay isn't afraid to introduce drama , sadness and moral dilemmas into a g-rated comedy for all ages . it's a sad fact of life in the toy kingdom that all of them are subject to be taken to the dreaded yard sale . this story makes this much more touching and complicated than it might seem . most studios would be proud to have a success every now and then , but pixar , with three wonderful films ( toy story , a bugs life and now toy story 2 ) , is certainly batting a thousand . given the dearth of laudable kids' movies , pixar deserves a huge pat on the back by parents and moviegoers everywhere for giving us such extremely enjoyable g-rated entertainment . it is rated g and would be fine for all ages , including adults with no children whatsoever at the screening i attended were almost all of my son's fifth grade class , and i heard nothing but * * * * ratings from them afterwards . my son , jeffrey , loved the film , mentioning how many hilarious lines there were . his friend nickolas said he thought it was great and that he liked it 100% . 
writer/director kevin smith's dogma is quite surprising , but not for the reasons you might expect . smith , famous for his hilarious brand of irreverent humor with films such as clerks and chasing amy , is back with his best motion picture ever , dogma , the most politically incorrect movie of the year . this is all as expected given its early positive buzz and its being dropped like a hot potato by its original distributor , disney . what is truly surprising is that dogma , while unabashedly ridiculing the catholic church , asks so many good questions and poses so many insights into the meaning of faith that it becomes the most religious movie of the year . usually when pictures want to make fun of organized religion , as the recent and awful stigmata did against the catholic church , they go for nothing but the cheap shots and never try to raise any genuine issues about belief in god . dogma , while firmly in the comedic camp , is as good a serious film as it is a funny one . only in its gratuitously violent scenes does the film go needlessly awry . he explains , among other things , that the film is a " work of comedic fantasy " and asks viewers not to " pass undue judgment " since that is " reserved for god and god alone ( this goes for you film critics too ? just kidding ) . " already , he has softened us up , and the movie hasn't even started . cardinal glick , played by none other than george carlin in an inspired bit of casting against type , announces with great fanfare a new " buddy christ " figurine to replace the tired , depressing old crucifix . along with the church's new upbeat icon is a fresh marketing campaign with the theme of " catholicism wow ! " now , you can see why disney was worried about protestors and boycotts . you can just imagine how the angel of death deals with transgressors . it's not pretty , but most of the violence , thankfully , happens off-screen . typical of the show's serious side , the two angels , acting like a couple of seminarians , get into a heated argument on the precise meaning of freewill and religion . generally nothing good happens in a parking garage in the movies and certainly nothing profound . acting like they have a collective iq of 50 , the guys start hanging out with bethany , mainly hoping to have sex with her . all of the characters possess both a serious and a comedic side . " you people don't celebrate your faith , you morn it , " serendipity complains . one scene of really gross bathroom humor features an evil guy known as poopyboy . a whimsical , violent , hilarious and perceptive motion picture , dogma asks great questions . " why are we here ? " dogma , a motion picture destined to be hated as sacrilegious by large numbers of people , most of whom won't see it , isn't for everyone . but if you can approach it with an open mind , i think you'll find it an extremely funny and quite rewarding film . it is rated r for strong language including sex-related dialogue , violence , crude humor and some drug content and would be acceptable for older high school students . 
the riveting movie , the hurricane , is based on hurricane carter's true story . directed with loving intensity by norman jewison ( in the heat of the night and a soldier's story ) and starring denzel washington as hurricane carter , in a powerfully moving performance , the riveting movie is likely to earn them both oscar nominations . only in the middle section does the director allow his movie to meander for a bit , but he more than makes up for a slack 15 minutes or so with his rousing last act . cutting back and forth between timeframes , the movie tells hurricane's story . " i tasted my own blood , and i loved it . " jewison convincingly creates carter as a black gandhi . jewison makes the movie as much a detective story as a social commentary and biography . the chances that the current world boxing champion would do this are close to zero . rod steiger , who as the judge du jour seems to appear in every crime drama this year , is finally given the respect he deserves and allowed in this movie to play the part of a judge without parody . the best stories constantly surprise us , which is certainly true of this one . one particularly effective scene has carter , who prides himself on being a " warrior scholar , " talking passionately about the power and magic of writing . since that is my personal joy , i had this strange feeling that he speaking directly to me . like one of those paintings in which the eyes follow only you wherever you walk , this movie speaks to each of us and contains many more messages than you might guess . a picture that can be enjoyed and appreciated on many levels , it is a stunning piece of work that deserves high praise and big box office receipts . it is rated r for language and some violence and would be fine for teenagers . 
secrets -- every family has them , but some families' secrets are more shocking than others . in the directorial debut of tim roth , an actor famous for such villainous roles as his oscar nominated performance in rob roy , roth tackles one of the toughest subjects possible , incest . the astonishing film , the war zone , isn't as unwatchable as the title or the early buzz about the picture might suggest . with his almost reverential respect for his actors , roth lets us share the inner strengths as well as the pain of the teen victims . alexander stuart's sparse script , based on his novel , lets roth tell the story through a set of incredibly strong visuals . the best actors can do more with their faces than their words , and roth takes this ensemble cast to new heights of telling imagery . speaking would just distract from many of the moments anyway . one look at the faces attempting bravely to hold back the tears and the explosive anger , and you know all you need to know . to an outside observer or even a close neighbor , the patriarchal family in the movie would appear perfectly normal and happy . the gregarious and polite dad ( ray winstone ) seems kind and gentle and the mum ( tilda swinton ) just as sweet . in the movie's most telling scene , tom finally gets just the evidence he needs , but it so sickens him that he immediately destroys it . roth isn't skittish about detailing the incest . the scenes are explicit , not to shock or to titillate but to make clear exactly what is happening and exactly how painful it is . roth said that he feels the material demands this level of frankness . with hauntingly sad piano music by simon boswell , the picture literally cries out to us in anguish . the war zone has but one counterpart , ang lee's the ice storm . neither is easy viewing , perhaps , but both are emotionally rewarding . it is not rated but would probably be nc-17 for explicit sex , nudity , language and some violence . the film would not be appropriate for those under 18 . 
" i always thought it would be better to be a fake somebody than a real nobody , " tom ripley ( matt damon ) says in his most revealing line of the hitchcockean tale , the talented mr . set in 1958 , the movie's lush color palate makes it look like it was filmed back then . john seale's inviting cinematography gives the picture a travelogue gloss . but with creepy music reminiscent of an old thriller and with the sinister events of the story , you may have second thoughts about your initial inclination to leave the theater to book your seat on the next flight out . all of the acting is superb , but it is damon's oscar quality work that stands out the most . truer words were never spoken . as marge explains , his attention is like the sun . when it's on you , you feel warm and happy , and , when it isn't , you're cold . in a wonderfully nuanced performance , damon reveals much while seeming to reveal little about tom . some of the twists in the plot are obvious but many aren't . the surprises are delicately presented with subtlety being the story's trademark . tom doesn't plan most of his nefarious activities , and the movie has that same easy naturalness as if the story just unfolds organically rather than being tightly scripted . " i don't care for bs , " he says coldly . " i don't care to speak it . i don't care to hear it . " certainly tom doesn't see anything wrong with his actions . and the subversive show has us rooting for him all along the way . the talented mr . ripley may be an odd and disquieting choice for a holiday release , but it is nevertheless a fascinating one . the talented mr . it is rated r for violence , language and brief male full-frontal nudity and would be fine for most teenagers . 
it's hard piloting a large spacecraft through a space station if the only practice you've ever had is with cardboard models on a television series . needless to say , our reluctant heroes have no idea , well no real idea , what to do . in dean parisot's side-splittingly funny galaxy quest , this delicious concept is milked for every joke possible . setting a perfect comedic tone , the movie is a delightful and imaginative parody of star trek , right down to their hokey conventions with adoring fans , dressed in full and authentic series regalia . the campy movie never veers into slapstick , and the ensemble cast plays every scene with complete seriousness and believability . given the volume and the frequency of the laughter that the film produces , it could be thought of as the pg comedic equivalent of there's something about mary . galaxy quest makes silly ideas so likeably funny that you can't control your laughter , even if you try . never surrender ! " nesmit is an extroverted , egocentric actor who plays the convention crowds like he's a rock star . needless to say , demarco has never been pleased with her highly limited role . every science fiction show needs lots of expendable crew members . with voices rather like porpoises and gestures that blend many animal behaviors , the thermians produce instant mirth whenever they are on the set . they've even reconstructed the protector , right down to gadgets that they have no idea how to work but are sure the real crew will . the film's purposely ridiculous monsters range from innocent-looking alien babies with sharp teeth to lumbering rock monsters to a grotesquely rotund pig , all done with spoofing , not frightening , in mind . with a constant look of " oh my god , i can't believe i'm doing this , " the actors try their best to fake it . although most of them convincingly do and say the right things , fleegman doesn't have the same ad-libbing skills as the others . for all of those scriptwriters who don't think through the logic of their stories , the movie shows what can happen . " whoever wrote this episode should die ! " only flagging briefly when it tries momentarily to get serious , the parody is likely to appeal as well to 10-year-olds as to senior citizens . there's even a " gilligan's island " joke . yes , the thermians think it's a documentary , and they feel quite sorry for those poor people stuck on that island . it is rated pg for silly monsters and a little mild profanity . the film would be fine for all ages , but the monsters may briefly frighten some impressionable young kids . my son jeffrey , age 10 , gave the film * * * * . he laughed loudly and often . words i heard afterwards from them included : imaginative , exciting , hilarious , great plot , best movie in a long time , etc . the kids were blown away by the movie . 
rolf sch ? bel's gloomy sunday is a great old-fashioned romance worth savoring again and again in repeated viewings . starring extremely likable and charismatic leads , who are deeply in love , the film's title proves more ironic than apt . although parts are undeniably sad , the story's joys surpass its woes . and the music is nothing short of incredible . if ever there was a tune to put you in the mood for love , it is " gloomy sunday " from whence the movie gets its name and not the other way around . with two distinct but seamless parts , the story is so strong that each half of the film could be a wonderful motion picture in its own right . the better of the two acts is the unabashedly romantic first part when we meet the lovers and watch them woo . a striking , dark-haired beauty with penetrating eyes and a gorgeous figure to match , ilona is a girl-next-door type or at least the type you wished lived next door . frequently seen innocently kissing in the corridors , these small , naturally romantic scenes are some of the picture's best . too often cinematic love affairs fail because the chemistry between the lovers goes from stiffly awkward in the small moments to gropingly over-the-top in the sex scenes . the lovers in gloomy sunday are hopelessly and honestly in love . marozs ? n , in particular , is so electric in her performance that it is easy to see how anyone would fall for her . laszlo , who looks like a slightly plump bruce willis , is played with a graceful charm by joachim kr ? l . he'd rather have some of ilona than risk having none . sometimes ilona would go with one and sometimes the other . even more surprising is its effect . the movie uses this suicide subtheme as a glue to bind together various story elements . the film's best minor character is played by the colonel's anal-retentive secretary . bracketed by appearances of many of the story's protagonists today , the film never flags . with a sweeping romantic momentum from the first scene to the last , the picture and its incredible music capture our hearts and hold them every spellbinding second . gloomy sunday runs 1 : 50 . it is not rated but would be an r for sex , nudity and some violence . the film would be fine for older teenagers . 
" executions 'r us " could read the business card of fred a . leuchter jr . , the engrossing subject of errol morris's latest documentary , mr . his camerawork choices are both beautiful and insightful . and he manages to find humor without ever resorting to cheap shots and to make the potentially repugnant absolutely riveting . in a film with two distinct but seamless parts , morris presents us with the life of engineer leuchter . through this he developed an interest in prisons , specifically executions . " i was very concerned about the humanitarian aspects of death by torture , " leuchter explains . before leuchter came along , electric chairs were generally built by inmates or electricians , not based on any blueprint or design but on seeing a picture of some other state's old electric chair . this led to some pretty horrific executions when the chair did not serve its intended purpose of putting a person to death as quickly and as painlessly as possible . " i am a proponent of capital punishment , " leuchter tell us . " i am not a proponent of capital torture . " the movie is at it's most convincing when it easily disproves leuchter's disproof of the annihilation of the jews . his descent proves more rapid than his ascent . morris's gripping film tells a fascinating story of a little man who let his accomplishments inflate his ego until it burst . it is rated pg-13 for mature themes and would be fine for teenagers . 
" if i ever talked about a girl in class , my parents would tease me . " " lately i've been wanting something different , something more , " he tells us of his desire for a genuine relationship . writer/director doug atchison's the pornographer is a wonderful film quite comparable to the highly acclaimed and popular boogie nights . even if it isn't quite as funny as boogie nights , the pornographer is much more genuine and touching . as the director correctly explained at our screening , " the story is more about love , loneliness and corruption than pornography . " after all , he reasons , porn flicks are so poorly made and plotless that he is confident that he could do better . parts of the film are hilarious with most of the best lines being unprintable . its excellent acting and handsome look belie its very low budget . partly tragic , frequently funny and always touching , the film creates characters you care about even when they go astray . a deeply moving film with the porn industry as its backdrop , the pornographer shows indie films at their best and without a single witch . it is not rated but might be an r for strong sexuality , nudity , drug usage , language and brief violence . the film would be acceptable for high school seniors . 
how about this for a concept ? an autobiographical story about a boy and his dog that doesn't have any special effects , no talking animals and no promotional toy tie-ins . jay russell's my dog skip is just a good , old-fashioned , heart-warming story that is so genuine and touching that it should appeal to people of all ages , even those with no kids . the sweetest little dog imaginable , skip is a lovable pup who's full of energy . the director finds lots of adorable things for the canine to do without ever letting the story turn schmaltzy . typical of the inspired staging is the delightful , time-lapse visual of skip as he is growing up until he is finally big enough to jump up and drink from the family's white porcelain toilet bowl . " the dog of your boyhood teaches you a great deal , " willie tells us of skip . " you could talk to him better than you could talk to most human beings . " the movie is filled with wonderfully poetic narration by harry connick , jr . , as the voice of the adult willie . and this was the summer that willie learned quite a few . many of the episodes are quite humorous , and all are honest and genuine . the warmly nostalgic picture is filmed in radiantly inviting colors and filled with richly evocative music . as a viewer , you will vicariously get to enjoy skip's friendship . and if you find yourself both applauding and crying during the picture , as i did , don't be surprised . actually , if you don't cry , you'll probably want to get a check-up . the film joyously reminds us all of just how wonderful life can be . the good-spirited picture will likely bring back many fond memories of your childhood . i too had a terrier , although mine was half cocker spaniel . there are other similarities , but i can't mention them without giving away key plot points . i relived my childhood while watching the film . what more could you ask for ? my dog skip runs 1 : 35 . it is rated pg for some violent content and mild language . the film would be fine for all ages , including people without kids at all . be warned , however , that some of the tragedies in the picture may briefly frighten impressionable kids under around 8 . my son jeffrey , age 10 , absolutely adored the movie . he gave it * * * * and said that it should win an oscar . he liked everything about the movie , and he loved skip . jeffrey's buddy nickolas , age 10 , gave the picture * * * , saying it was funny and had a good plot . and , of course , he too thought skip was terrific . 
she's the kind who might read the book and carefully do just the opposite . have i mentioned yet that she is played by julia roberts ? the movie has two stories for the price of one , and both are terrific . susannah grant's screenplay turns this into a comedy just a few small notches below notting hill in the level of its humor . roberts is a charmer . no matter how many times she uses the f-word , she's still just as adorable since the character she plays probably talks just that way . the other part of the movie concerns a contamination case against pg & e ( pacific gas and electric ) that's similar to a civil action but much more compelling . in both movies we are asked to accept at face value that the hollywood version of a complex legal case is the correct one . whatever the truth is , this movie presents a cogent case that sounds plausible . and within the context of the movie , it certainly works . at the top of his form , albert finney plays ed with wry charm . the chemistry between them is precious . almost as a lark , ed lets erin look into a ground water contamination case in hinkley , california . the well-written script makes the case crystal clear even if it is quite complex . the movie has a few flaws , including needing just a little tightening up in the editing . the only irritating part is that a key plot twist is too obviously telegraphed in advance and for no good reason . a real crowd-pleaser of a movie , it delivers excellent value for your entertainment dollars while still staying honest . erin is the sort of woman you'd like to know . and the type you'd probably have just as much fun trading barbs with as ed does . the movie about her life is an easy one to recommend to one and all . it's a fun story about a real character , in all senses of the word . it is rated r for language and would be fine for most teenagers . 
in the wonderfully sardonic detention , by writer/director andy anderson ( positive i . d . ) , the bored students know that they can get away with absolutely anything . it seems that 2 parents got an injunction after they found some material objectionable in the current books . this smartly kafkaesque tale has two distinct parts . the darkly comedic first part is followed by a shockingly dramatic second , each fascinating in its own right , but both better together . the comedy works because the excellent ensemble cast takes it dead seriously , and the drama works better because of the comedic relief . both are helped by being outlandish yet frequently quite plausible , as any teacher , especially substitute teachers , will tell you . mr . walmsley , who rarely raises his voice , correctly points out . the school's attorneys have determined the recommended number of teacher-to-student eye-contacts -- 8 per student per class since more would constitute sexual harassment and less would be evidence of discrimination . the challenging story , which asks thought-provoking and provocative questions , is willing to tackle difficult subjects in surprising ways . the director , who is as engaging and hilarious as his movie and who was at our screening , told us of the reaction of a friend of his who had seen the film : " if you're a kid , it's a horror movie ; if you're an adult , it's a fantasy . " it has not yet been submitted to the mpaa for a rating . although it contains full male and female frontal nudity and violence , the director told me that he believes that it will be able to receive an r without cuts since there is no sexuality associated with the nudity . the film would be acceptable for older teenagers . 
edward norton ( fight club ) , one of the most gifted actors today , shows that he is just as talented behind the camera as in front of it in his directorial debut with keeping the faith , a film in which he stars along with ben stiller ( there's something about mary ) and jenna elfman ( edtv and " dharma & greg " ) . most actors , even some of the best ones , play essentially the same character in every movie . edward norton is a true acting chameleon who becomes completely different people in every part he plays . in a cinematic era in which cynicism rules , keeping the faith is that rarest of movies that celebrate the importance and the joys of faith and religion . and at a time in which dysfunctionalism is ever-present in pictures , keeping the faith shows the unbounded happiness of a good romance . the script is quite funny , and there isn't a false moment in the movie . set in new york city , the movie is filmed beautifully , and the city's skyscrapers have never looked lovelier . the picture's only failing is that norton makes the mistake of many first-time directors and falls too much in love with his work , letting some scenes meander when they should have been crisper . this feel-good movie is a real charmer with great romantic chemistry among the leads . it makes you feel happy to be alive . keeping the faith runs 2 : 05 . it is rated pg-13 for some sexuality and language and would be fine for kids around 11 and up . my son jeffrey , almost 11 , loved the movie , giving it a full * * * * . 
" did i listen to pop music because i was miserable or am i miserable because i listen to pop music ? " the three of them insult what few customers they have unless they consider the buyer's level of musical knowledge acceptable . his most important top-5 list is that of his biggest breakups . easily half of dialog occurs with cusack talking directly to the camera . his soliloquies are heavily laced with self-deprecating humor , and he has a hangdog look that says " dump me " on his forehead . rob's most recent girlfriend and the one that gets the most screen time is laura , played warmly and fetchingly by iben hjejle from mifune . in one of his best performances ever , cusack is absolutely delightful . sympathetic , funny , sweet and sad , cusack's rob is a person that everyone can identify with in some way . the movie is fresh and original , thanks to a great script by d . v . devincentis , steve pink , john cusack and scott rosenberg , based on devincentis's novel , and it contains a large number of big laughs . and , as you might guess , it has a killer soundtrack . a good-spirited and funny film , high fidelity has to go on the top of your must-see list if you're a john cusack fan . and , for the few of you who aren't , this movie should serve to change your mind . it is rated r for sexuality and language and would be fine for most teenagers . 
is it possible to parody a sport like wrestling , which is itself nothing but a parody ? in ready to rumble , director brian robbins , working from a hilarious script by steven brill , answers that question in the affirmative with the most outlandishly funny film since there's something about mary . with one over-the-top sequence after another , they make a film that you'll undoubtedly find either greatly awful or awfully great . the vast majority of our packed audience hooted and hollered and was clearly in the latter category , but there were a few walkouts , proving the film will not have quite universal appeal . his bombastic speech pumps up his adoring fans in the crowd . " do you want to see me make diamond dallas page into one of my maids in waiting ? " he bellows to a roaring audience . the last act is , of course , the big match . it is as side-splittingly funny as the rest of the picture , which produces an uncountable number of uncontrollable laughs . the movie's secret ingredient is its unusual choice of music . what sort of music comes to mind when you think of a bunch of sweaty guys trying to pulverize each other as a form of entertainment ? well , it did to the makers of ready to rumble , and proves a perfect match to this over-the-top production . it is rated pg-13 for language , crude humor , sexuality , brief male rear nudity and wrestling violence . but , it's a hard pg-13 . the movie would be fine for teenagers . 
santosh sivan's brilliant first film , the terrorist , was released in india under the less judgmental title of malli . the point of the movie is to get behind the mind and conscience of an individual willing to die for a cause . the story carefully avoids telling us the cause for which malli fights . played as a mesmerizing enigma by ayesha dharkar , malli is someone about whom you know everything and nothing . the director's background is as a cinematographer , and he lens this picture to stunning effect . malli's round face with its silver-dollar-sized eyes fills frame after frame until you feel that her image might break the edges of the celluloid . her wide eyes hypnotize you with their intensity . water , a universal symbol of purity , turns out to be the movie's most important supporting character . whether a torrential downpour or the gentle water from a shower , the water is always symbolic . the surprise of the movie is that , with its lush scenes of nature , it is more often sweetly touching than frighteningly dramatic . malli isn't what we've come to expect in our depiction of zealots . she is determined to do whatever it takes , and yet she possesses an amazing tenderness for such a hardened killer . as she stares directly into your eyes , you feel her saying something to you , but her precise message to you remains as elusive as the politics to which she has dedicated her life . the director coaxes incredible performances out of even the minor characters . the director's gift for cinematography makes the picture mesmerizing . among the other memorable images are the times he keeps the camera in shallow focus as something important happens in the background . this technique is used to maximum effect as malli's face fills the frame while in the background bouncing lights come toward her . these colorful lights slowly transform into a very blurry image of the vip . these are all intriguing questions . but , the journey up to the assassination is the reward in this unusual , fascinating and brilliant picture by santosh sivan . the film creates instant excitement for the director's next project . the film is in tamil with english subtitles . it is not rated but would be r for violence and would be fine for older teenagers . 
what would you say ? this opportunity of a lifetime may never be yours , but it is john sullivan's ( james caviezel ) in frequency . in a lesser director's hands , this movie could easily have dissolved into schmaltz or a cheap sci-fi flick . director gregory hoblit ( fallen and primal fear ) , aided again by david rosenbloom's perfectly timed editing , delivers a thriller that keeps you on the edge of your seat and a heart-warming father-son story that comes along as a wonderful bonus . the effects of modifying the past are ingeniously explored by the wonderfully complex and satisfying script of first-time writer toby emmerich . the tightly-written script contains twist upon twist , and its potential holes appear to be thoroughly plugged . the intense film works more for the writing and the directing than the acting , although the actors are more than adequate . among the examples of the script's ingenuity is the way that the shared desk is used to communicate across time . this is , however , the type of film that may disappoint some viewers . they liked the action-thriller parts -- including some impressive fires and explosions -- but somehow couldn't deal with sincere expressions of love between a father and a son . personally , i was close to tears . frequency can legitimately be called a good-spirited thriller , a category that barely exists . it is also sometimes funny with one of the best parts concerning a stock recommendation . the intriguing story holds your attention from start to finish . with characters worth caring about and a mesmerizing plot , the movie is thoroughly entertaining and intelligent to boot . and like many a movie , it isn't the saccharinely silly story that the movie's trailers might lead you to believe . this is an intense and fast-paced film that sometimes literally takes your breath away . it is rated pg-13 for intense violence and disturbing images and would not be appropriate for those under 13 . 
comedy is hard , which is why most scripts stick to gross-out jokes and easy slapstick . every once and a while a truly gifted filmmaker comes up with just the right formula that takes the genre up a level with the brightness of a script that keeps hitting its comedic mark . road trip's writer/director todd phillips does this with a movie that is at the level of animal house and there's something about mary . the good-spirited laughs come so hard and fast that you'll miss many of the lines as the audience's laughter will drown them out . like these two classics , road trip doesn't pull any punches . a tremendously energetic and fun film , it's a real crowd pleaser that is more than humorous . it's also erotic , smart and wild . needless to say , they'll hit a few speed bumps along the way . this subplot alone is worth the price of admission . puts it , " what am i going to do , stay here and learn ? " these include : " it's not cheating if you're in a different area code . " and " it's not cheating if you're too wasted to remember it , because if you can't remember it , it never really took place . " besides the hilarious dialog , the movie uses physical comedy to maximum effect . there is one sex scene that rivals the zipper and the hair gel incidents in there's something about mary . even the predictable episodes , as when kyle loses his virginity , are staged freshly and sweetly . the movie flies by with such tremendous energy that it's over before you know it . perhaps the highest compliment that i could pay it is to point out that it was one of the few pictures that i've seen in recent memory that i would have loved to have been a half hour longer . i really enjoyed my road trip with these lovable kids , and i think you will , too . it makes you downright nostalgic for a time that never was . the closing credits claimed that the story was fictional , but i'm not buying it . check it out : the director's entire career has been in making documentaries . this one was probably just another . it is rated r for strong sexual content , crude humor , language and drug use and would be acceptable for high school seniors and older . 
in writer/director jeremy podeswa's mesmerizing the five senses , rona ( mary-louise parker from grand canyon ) has a small problem -- an impaired sense of taste . a baker who creates marvelous-looking but incredibly-bland cakes , rona hasn't a clue as to how to create flavor . this is one of many overlapping stories in the five senses . using this plot gimmick , podeswa , an extremely gifted writer and director , never lets the limitations of the setup confine the bounds of his storytelling . the beauty of the story is that no matter how much we learn about each character , we are compelled to discover even more . most writers introduce a dozen main characters only to the detriment of narrative clarity , but podeswa manages to create complex characterization within the bounds of minimal screen time . his movie calls to mind lawrence kasdan's grand canyon in the depth of its characterization . the five senses in tone most reminds one of another canadian film , the sweet hereafter , but the five senses mixes comedy and romance with its tragedies . the deliberate and successful slow pacing works in both pictures , whereas slowness is usually cinematic death for a film . robert is a funny , friendly guy , who is light-years away from the clich ? s we are normally presented with as gay people . his search has the same bittersweet tone as the rest of the movie , but his character works so hard to be happy that we could vote him " most wanting to succeed . " we root for him all the way even when it seems that no one appreciates him as they should . the hauntingly beautiful music by composers alexina louie and alex pauk perfectly captures and enhances the mood of the film . full of strings , wind instruments and dreamy voices , the score is striking in its emotional impact on the film and lovely on its own . eventually , the stories wrap up quite satisfactorily but without any unnatural convergences or actions . podeswa doesn't insult your intelligence by providing some cheap epilogue . it is rated r for sexuality and language and would be acceptable for teenagers . 
subtly posing provocative questions about love , religion , family , discrimination and nationalism , the ambitious and successful film has a single significant flaw -- at 3 full hours , it is too short . with a great cast , szab ? introduces so much material that a 6-hour miniseries would have been more appropriate . this however should not dissuade anyone from seeing this version since it does not suffer from being too short , rather it just makes us wish it were longer . ignatz is an ambitious and rather malleable judge who bends too often to the prevailing winds . ehle looks so fetching that it is easy to understand the temptation . this excessive family love will reappear more than once . valerie is a fascinating character in her own right . " you made the right choice -- assimilation is the only way , " adam is congratulated by one of his well-placed friends . the constant changing of the guard in hungary is shown through archival footage into which fiennes is sometimes placed , giving the movie an extra dose of realism . a beautiful film , it has gorgeous cinematography and sumptuous sets , including lavish interiors of government buildings and of wood-paneled coffee houses . it's a good question and naturally doubles back on question of the value of god . from ignatz on , the family motto seems to be that if you don't believe in god , you might as well pledge allegiance to which ever god is most popular , hence the conversion from judaism to christianity and later to stalinism , a state religion . " if there is no god and there never was a god , why do we miss him so much ? " another good question . ultimately the film is about this wandering in the wilderness of life , trying to avoid seeing what we want to ignore and being seen for what we are . it is rated r for sex , violence , language and nudity and would be acceptable for older teenagers . 
watching almost famous by writer/director cameron crowe ( jerry maguire ) is like enjoying one of those old vinyl lps that are collecting dust in your closet . as you kick back , you can remember your younger days , while listening to some great rock 'n' roll . in an inspired bit of casting , patrick fugit , a kid with sweetly penetrating eyes and an androgynous bowl haircut , plays william . whether anyone will take this boyish figure as a real critic seems questionable at best . -- which he never does -- as she is to say , " i love you . " the good-spirited script softens elaine's image so that we find her a strong , lovable character and not merely a clich ? . lester tells william that it's too bad he missed rock's heyday and that it's all over now . he generously gives william his first assignment -- a small piece writing about black sabbath . " and the chicks are great , right ? " traveling with clearwater are girls that call themselves " band-aids " rather than groupies since they don't have " sex " with band members , just oral sex -- where have we heard that one before ? crudup , who frequently seems so serious in his parts that you wonder if he's having any fun , clearly gets a kick out of his role this time . russell knows that no matter how innocent william looks , he could still be the enemy if he writes something that trashes the band or reveals too many secrets . russell's a trippy philosopher ( " in 11 years , it will be 1984 -- think about it . " ) , who is more profound sober than stoned . the music is great , the concert footage is energetic and john toll's cinematography is luscious . a completely entertaining film , it manages to find a cathartic way to wrap it all up . and it makes this film critic a bit jealous since william's assignment is like the job of a lifetime . almost famous runs 2 : 04 . it is rated r for language , drug content and brief nudity and would be acceptable for most teenagers . 
the cell is surrealistic grand opera as choreographed by the marquis de sade . as first-time screenwriter mark protosevich accurately points out in the press kit , he wanted to take the next step beyond the silence of the lambs . even this critic , who generally has an iron constitution after years of watching 300 films a year , was squirming in his seat on this one . taking itself completely seriously , the movie blends science fiction technology with an old fashioned hunt for a serial killer and his dying last victim . the result is an edge-of-the-seat thriller that should have been rated nc-17 but was given an r . consider the silence of the lambs as your personal benchmark . if it was too much for you , then you do not want to see the cell . other the hand , this is one of the best movies of the summer , and you can always close your eyes if you have to . it sounds silly and looks a bit ridiculous , but the story shoots for and achieves intelligent science-fiction rather than camp . the majority of the credit for the cell should go to first-time feature film director tarsem singh , who crafts audacious scenes of great visual power . he puts his background as a music video director to work , finding inventive and beautiful ways to stage scenes . paul laufer's stunning cinematography , with its dark , oversaturated colors , calls to mind another lopez film , oliver stone's u-turn . the cell's striking visuals along with its fantastical costumes absolutely mesmerize the viewers . but there is a problem . the scene of someone's intestines being slowly ripped out is not even the worst of many nightmarish incidents that we encounter . yeah , right . it looks pretty scary to the audience , so one can just imagine how frightening it would be going inside the head of a serial killer . nevertheless , the movie makes this voyage completely engrossing , like reading a book that you can't put away until you've read every page . although the movie may make you embarrassed for not having more elaborate dreams , it could also have another effect . it may make you wish that the future described in the story would get here sooner . imagine arranging for jennifer lopez to appear in your dreams with a disk that you could insert into your bed's electronics . now that would be a movie tie-in worth purchasing . it is rated r for bizarre violence and sexual images , nudity and language , but it should have been rated nc-17 . 
titles for films serve a variety of purposes from grabbing the attention of potential viewers to giving them an expectation of what the movie will be like . ( sometimes , of course , filmmakers confuse the public by devising ironic titles like happiness . ) those people who go expecting graphic sex will be quite disappointed , and those avoiding it because they think it is a porn movie will be deprived of seeing an extremely wise and interesting movie about adult relationships . the story has more in common with my dinner with andr ? than basic instinct . let me explain . although from the beginning we know the story's arc , writer philippe blasband finds involving and sometimes surprising ways to get there . both actors accomplish more with subtle facial movements than through their dialog . well cast , the two middle-age actors are reasonably attractive but neither is beautiful . the chemistry between them , which we witness usually as they have drinks at a bar near the hotel , is more genuine that 20 such would-be romances in traditional hollywood films . one of the most satisfying parts of the film occurs when they finally let us into their bedroom to watch them engage in sex , albeit not their fantasy act . most cinematic sex has naked model-quality individuals engaging in something that approximates auditions for world wrestling federation membership . in contrast , director fr ? d ? ric fonteyne has his actors truly making love , not sport . a minor quibble would be their constant use of sheets to cover themselves . a little more openness would have been appropriate . what exactly was this fantasy of theirs , the interviewer demands to know . he will say nothing . and love is precisely what an affair of love is about -- as well as the importance of good human communication , friendship , intimacy and even marriage . it's a wonderfully touching film with a big and slightly bittersweet heart . the film is in french with english subtitles . it is rated r for some strong sexual content and would be acceptable for older teenagers . 
did i mention that she has never really met david , except , that is , on television ? you see , david isn't real either . he is just the lead character in the popular soap opera , " a reason to love . " delightful playing bad soap star george mccord , kinnear is equally charming as george's television character , david . here we want betty and david , i mean george , to get together since both are so appealing . after all , david said on the television that " i just know that there's something really special out there for me , " and she knows that he must have been speaking about her . with a huge smile , betty has a childlike innocence . as george says to her , " your dedication scares me . " the surprising scene when they first meet is the most brightly written one in a script bursting with wonderfully imaginative scenes . the screenplay by john c . richards and james flamberg won the award as the best screenplay at this year's cannes international film festival . director labute , known for his demonic dramas ( in the company of men ) and caustic comedies ( your friends & neighbors ) , is one of my personal favorites . this , his third film , is the first time that he has worked from someone else's script . here , he proves , in case there was any doubt , that he's just as brilliant a director as he is a writer . and this being a labute film , there is an undercurrent of danger , as well as a bit of pathos . nevertheless , the film is an amazingly good-spirited one , especially for someone known for exploring people's darkest impulses . the cheerful cinematography by jean-yves escoffier ( good will hunting ) with its bright colors adds to the story's upbeat ambiance . the strong supporting cast has so many terrific performances that it is hard to pick a favorite , but mine might be allison janney ( american beauty ) as the soap's hard-nosed producer . i won't give away how nurse betty ends , but i thought it was perfect , especially its little epilog , which was icing on the cake . it is rated r for strong violence , pervasive language and a scene of sexuality and would be acceptable for older teenagers . 
possessing some of the same charm of an early mamet film , the whimsical things change from 1988 , state and main is a screwball comedy and good-spirited satire about filmmaking in small town america . with such a great ensemble cast , it's hard to identify the story's star . macy with his big blue eyes that are so deep that you could swim in them is at once delicately vulnerable and tough as nails . walt is a master at stroking his stars' massive egos , but he is willing to throw tantrums if necessary to get the movie made . " that's a gift for fantasy . " the story , in fact , takes great pleasure in throwing all manner of little mini-dramas and mysteries at us , leaving us to guess which will be dead ends and which will turn out to be significant . ( ah , those mysteries . ) this is all terribly ironic since her breasts have been on the screen so often that viewers " can draw them from memory " claims walt and others . putting his arms around walt , marty is heard to say off-screen , " did you see the grosses for gandhi 2 ? " marty brings walt a very profitable product placement idea from a dot . com of course , getting a computer into a movie set in 1895 might prove difficult for someone less resourceful than marty . all of the crew are heavy cell phone users , but this is done cutely and not irritatingly as it was in hanging up . after the latter film , i thought that i never wanted to see a cell phone in a movie ever again . i've just barely scratched the surface of this story . in a tour de force effort on mamet's part , he manages to craft an enormous number of fully developed characters , all of whom win our hearts , even if most do have their faults . his talent is never better seen than in the clever way in which he wraps up all of the story's loose ends . state and main is the kind of big-hearted movie that's worth seeing again and again . it is rated r for language and brief sexual images but is considerably milder than most recent pg-13 movies . although it is the parents' judgment , i would see no problem taking kids as young as 11 . in fact , i'd be happy to let my son , who is 11 , see it . 
gruffudd and roberts give poignant and endearing performances . her nervous excitement is in evidence in her small , slightly shaking gestures . their times together , whether they are talking , kissing or just holding each other's naked bodies , possess a naturalness of which most films only dream . about the only thing that i would like to have seen changed about the film would be for them to have spent more time alone together . their giddy innocence and genuine love is such a contrast to most american films that cheapen relationships and sex with trash-talking , wrestling-match sex and sheets to cover bodies as if nudity were something to be ashamed of . nina kellgren's incredible cinematography , using dark , somber blues and grays with the occasional patches of green , adds considerably to the story's intensity . the bleak welsh settings of rain and mist are so realistically rendered that you'll need a jacket in the theater to ward off hypothermia . couple these images with ilona sekacz's haunting score , and the result is a touching and poignant movie that draws your heart to it , even if you worry that it may break . the tragic storyline follows a predictable arc , although the journey itself contains several surprises . but expecting that you know the outcome doesn't necessarily diminish the experience . in one of the film's most effective moments , solomon joins gaenor and her family in quoting the old testament verbatim . the two groups act like they worship different gods , and yet they share such a large common text . the director does a marvelous job of showing the enormous physical and emotional hardships that the two lovers endure . a big fight scene , for example , leaves quite realistic scars . usually cinematic fights are made to look glamorous and macho , but leave little lasting effect . but not in solomon and gaenor , a movie with very much the same tone and approach as michael winterbottom's jude from several years back . a movie of tremendous sorrow and pathos , solomon and gaenor does eventually break our hearts , but not without purpose . maybe their happy times don't last forever , but does anything ? regardless of the racial prejudice , misunderstanding , and hatred around them , they have each other's love , even if it doesn't last as long as they would have wished . the film is in english , welsh and yiddish with english subtitles for the latter two . it is rated r for sexuality , nudity and a scene of violence and would be acceptable for older teenagers . 
in an age in which comedies seem to come only in two flavors , mean and meaner ( or crude and cruder ) , christopher guest's best in show is a delightful change of pace . it's a good-spirited comedy that gets laughs the old-fashioned way with sweetness and charm . guest , whose specialty is mockumentaries , acted in this is spinal tap and acted in , directed and co-wrote waiting for guffman , which he does again for best in show . with a terrific ensemble cast , many of whom appeared in waiting for guffman , the story moves from one hilarious episode to another . although christopher guest and eugene levy are credited as the writers , the press notes say that most of the lines were purposely improvised , which adds to the mock authenticity . or is it the other way round ? no one can play the hyperactive bitch role with more charm and grace than posey , who may be best known for her role as tom hank's live-in girlfriend in you've got mail . the beauty of the casting is the way that the actors don't seem like actors at all but just ordinary folks . and the most ordinary of the lot is the movie's co-writer eugene levy , who plays gerry fleck , a gregarious bad-dresser . at our press screening , one of the critics got so into it that he yelled , " oh shut-up ! " best in show is the kind of movie that has you forgetting that it is a movie . i don't want to give too much away , but the winner of the big show is a real dog . after the canine equivalent of the big game ending , the movie has an extended epilogue that is perhaps the best part of the picture . but with a film this funny , it is hard to pick favorites . it is rated pg-13 for language and sex-related material and would be fine for kids around 11 and up . 
" it's bigger than christmas day . " boaz yakin ( a price above rubies ) , working from a funny and moving script by first-time writer gregory allen howard , directs the movie with the same precision and passion demanded of the football players in it . williams high titans . always intense , coach boone is at once humorous and insufferable . after you win them , it's easy to forget the insanity required in practice to become the best . the movie , to its credit , doesn't try to smooth off the rough edges of boone's prickly personality or make his hard-work fanaticism seem easy to follow . much is made in the script of the difficulty of integrating the team so that they play as one . rather than beating us to death over the head with the race issue in oliver stone fashion , the movie uses a blend of extremely funny comedy and sharply written drama . again and again , you have to be in awe of washington's incredible talent as an actor . i have no idea how great the real-life coach boone was , but surely his gift was nothing in comparison to washington's , who brings so much charisma and drive to his every role . parts of the film , as when the team sings " ain't no mountain high enough , " are reminiscent of many other sports movies , especially the replacements . some , however , are surprises , especially the little gay humor thrown in with just the right amount of ambiguity . although the movie's epilogue talks about what great friends the two real-life coaches became , it's hard to see their girls ever really overcoming the differences in their interests . the football action is filmed up close so that it's hard to follow the game at other than a gut level . the editing is fast paced , and the football hits are punishingly hard so that the movie does pump up your adrenaline . even if the filming of the action isn't quite what it could be , it is more than adequate to tell the story . by the end , we've had an entertaining , good time and have been moved by a fascinating story . with a musical score of surprisingly sweeping grandeur , remember the titans is a wonderful film that is much better than we have any right to expect . remember the titans runs 1 : 53 . it is rated pg for thematic elements and some language and would be a great film for the entire family . they all mentioned how much they liked the story , especially the parts at the football preseason boot camp . they found the film quite funny . 
reminiscent of a gritty 1950s crime drama , the quiet film is a poignant character study of smoldering intensity that could easily have starred a young marlon brando and james dean . it may be something that even he can't cover up . if the script , by james gray and matt reeves , has a problem , it is that so much effort has gone into preparing three juicy roles for leo , willie and frank that the other parts don't have much to do other than provide filler . but that's a minor quibble for this simple story of great power . the music , including " saturn " from gustav holst's " the planets , " reinforces but doesn't overwhelm the solemnity of the drama . the best part of the production is harris savides's warmly intimate cinematography that is lit with light that seems to come from small incandescent bulbs filtered through old , yellowed lamp shades . shot in shadows through door slits and frequently from a distance , he makes us observers of the action rather than participants . the journey is the reward in this somber , cautionary tale . wahlberg's sympathetic portrayal of an unlucky loser is probably the best work that he has ever done . but almost everything about the movie is an exception . in an era in which quentin tarantino's influence means that films usually opt for maximum violence , the yards has remarkably little , concentrating its energy , instead , on a perceptive examination of the characters , not the action . it is rated r for language , violence and a scene of sexuality and would be acceptable for most teenagers . 
the rest of the cast fits nicely into the groove he creates for them . and jay roach , director of both of the austin powers pictures , sets an absolutely perfect comedic pace . the result is a movie that can have you laughing so hard that you run the risk of injuring yourself . ( my septuagenarian parents were busting a gut as well . ) and in some of the longer jokes , such as a discussion about whether milking a cat is possible , the laughs build to such a crescendo that some of the best lines are lost amidst the audience's caterwauling . surprisingly , this key part of the eldest daughter is the only underwritten one , although polo does a credible job with it . to say that he and greg don't hit off would be a colossal understatement . they can't even discuss pets without jack's taking offense . james herzfeld and john hamburg's script gets as much or more mileage from the physical comedy than the dialog , but the film never dissolves into slapstick . simple scenes that you've seen a hundred times before , like two guys drag-racing their cars through city streets , are made fresh . through a combination of de niro and stiller's eye contact and the way they make the cars screech to a halt at each red light , the episode feels like you've never seen it before . " under my roof , it's my way or the long island expressway ! " in one of many funny subplots , jack turns out to have an intriguing past . jack is not the sort that you'd want to mess with . " if i find you are trying to corrupt my first born , i will bring you down ! " " i will bring you down to chinatown ! " kevin and pam , a pair of golden gods , look like they're still an item . the dark-haired greg clearly looks like the odd man out . perhaps the reason that meet the parents is so eminently likeable is that it is such a good-spirited comedy . and at its core , it is a truly sweet romance . one thing is certain , its conclusion contains one of the most unusual marriage proposals that you are ever likely to see . it is rated pg-13 for sexual content , drug references and language and would be acceptable for kids around 11 and up . most of the movie's comedy did not work for my son , jeffrey , age 11 , who gave the film just * * . he said that he found the jokes old and repetitive . he thought the parents were too weird , and he didn't find any characters to like . 
director harold ramis ( analyze this and groundhog day ) has remade the 1967 film bedazzled , starring dudley moore , and , in short , it's a hoot . in fact it is so successfully funny and sweet that it almost makes you thankful for hollywood's much maligned tendency to remake old films rather than risk creating completely new ones . almost . hurley is playful , witty , erotic , conniving and perfect as the princess of darkness . it is by far and away the best thing that she has ever done . these seven wishes form seven wholly contained and wildly funny episodes . the devil and elliot's costumes and makeup are more than worth the price of admission . his various teeth alone are such a source of mirth that they should be worth some kind of special oscar consideration . the movie does a great job of getting all of the details right . larry gelbart , harold ramis and peter tolan's script , based on the 1967 version by peter cook and dudley moore , is full of great lines . it has elliot , depending on his current wish , sounding pompously pretentious , idiotically inarticulate or saccharinely sentimental . ( " do you need comforting on any level ? " " have i said or done anything to make you feel less good about you ? " ) rather than becoming repetitive and eventually sagging , the comedy builds energy as it goes . it has more big laughs than i could count , with the devil , who gets a bit less screen time , getting just as many as elliot . actually just the costumes and other visuals were enough for many of the laughs . the movie even finds a satisfying small twist to wrap it up . bedazzled is a good-spirited comedy that entertains us every minute from the opening credits to the last scene . it's a real charmer . the film is in english as well as spanish and russian with english subtitles . it is rated pg-13 for sex-related humor , language and some drug content and would be acceptable for kids around 11 and up . 
michael apted , director of absolutely the best documentary series ever made ( 42 up and its predecessors ) , as well a wide variety of feature films from coal miner's daughter to the world is not enough , examines the world of the scientist in me & isaac newton . the result is completely engrossing , and the film is equally accessible to the scientific literates and illiterates . although the comparisons to errol morris's fast , cheap & out of control are obvious , apted takes a completely different approach to the art of the documentary . unlike morris , who relishes humor in all forms , apted uses it sparingly . still , apted isn't above including footage of intelligence-test taking pigeons and of old flash gordon adventures . frankly , fewer would have been better . in a film in which few criticisms are possible , the only other one would be that a final section that mixes politics with doomsday views of the future feels like little more than remarkably unscientific speculation . " this was more fascinating that any murder mystery , " he explains , breathlessly . as he zooms across the ice , he says that it is " just me and isaac newton . " one beautifully simple example we are shown is the use of a cheap ultraviolet light for purifying water in third world nations . at our screening , gadgil told us that they interviewed many scientists before they chose these seven . also at our screening , mataric said that journalists come to her lab all of time , usually asking nothing but inane and shallow questions such as , " will robots take over the world ? " there is a wonderful and little known connection with fast , cheap & out of control that she shared with us . if you look closely , you can see just her legs in one of the scenes with the robots in that movie . and some of mataric's graduate assistants' legs appear in robot scenes in me & isaac newton . " science to me is almost a religion , " gertrude elion , a nobel prize-winning pharmaceutical chemist , tells us . " to me , science is truth and truth is beautiful . " a better explanation of the new economy has never been spoken . me & isaac newton is the type of film that should be seen by every junior high school student , but it has much broader appeal . it is an engrossing film that leaves you hopeful and gives you insights that you never knew that you were missing . me & isaac newton runs 1 : 40 . it is not rated but would probably be a g . it is fine for all ages , but kids under 10 will likely not be interested . 
so how many really good movies can you name about brother-sister relationships ? and what if you limit your list to only those about adult siblings ? don't be surprised if your list is empty , or at least close to it . in the future , any such list will have to start with you can count on me , the winner for best picture and best screenplay at this year's sundance film festival . written and directed by ken lonergan ( the writer of last year's hit comedy analyze this ) , you can count on me is a rich and witty drama whose centerpiece is a sibling relationship . but this isn't one of those dysfunctional families movies , even if their relationship does have its difficult moments . this is a story of love , not hate . the chemistry between them and between terry and rudy is remarkable and genuine . sammy has had a modestly successful life , but terry is a screw-up , although he claims , as if he doesn't believe it , that " i'm not the kind of guy that everyone says i am . " " what are you talking about , " rudy asks him with soulful , confused eyes . " i have no idea , " terry confesses in a bit of self-reflection . the beauty of the delicate script is the way tragedy is consistently downplayed and that key incidents are merely sketched out . the writer allows us to use our imagination to fill in the details . and the direction is done with great subtly and finesse so that there isn't an overacted or schmaltzy moment in the production . the result is a picture so authentic that it has the audience hitting the ground running . only a few minutes into it , and we feel like we've known and cared about these people all of our lives . linney delivers this line with heart-felt but restrained emotions , making it feel as genuine as if she were talking about her own dead mother . his is an anal-retentive type , who admits that " i like paperwork . " he wants daily time cards and a conservative color palette for the bank's pc displays . besides writing and directing , lonergan also plays the part of sammy's laid back priest , the funniest character in the movie . linney , with some of the spunk that holly hunter demonstrated in broadcast news , delivers a delicately nuanced and wonderfully appealing performance that deserves to be remembered at oscar time . but you want to see this movie now and not wait until the nominations come out to remind you of the great movies that you missed . you can count on me runs 1 : 49 . it is rated r for language , some drug use and a scene of sexuality and would be acceptable for most teenagers . 
so men , what could you do if you could read women's minds ? and women , wouldn't it be wonderful if your guy knew what you really wanted rather than what he incorrectly thought you wanted ? in what women want , director nancy meyers , working from a stellar script by josh goldsmith and cathy yuspa , creates the perfect christmas gift for holiday viewers . as a comedy , it is side-splittingly funny with laughs so big that you'll have to see it again to hear all of the lines . as a love story , it is infectiously romantic , with great songs ( " i've got you under my skin " ) and some old-fashioned " making out " with wonderful kissing . and as a touching drama , it has tender , poignant moments that are completely honest . wrapped by cinematographer dean cundey with lush colors , the gift is so carefully conceived and executed that we almost feel compelled to send paramount pictures a thank you card . with sweetly humorous displays of physical comedy in this cross-dressing scene , gibson reels in any audience members not yet under his spell . our audience went wild during this sequence , which turned out to be but one of many amazing scenes . sure enough , rule is exactly what he does . hunt's performance , while not quite at gibson's level , is extremely likeable . the great chemistry between them is one of the show's many delights . gibson turns the charm on the audience as well . with or without the ability to read women's minds , i predict that most women will leave the theater totally in love with gibson after this performance . to be fair , many already are . comedies aren't normally good at character development . romantic comedies are better but they usually only flesh out the two leads . since the writers in what women want are able to have every minor characters share their innermost thoughts with us , we get to know and care about characters who have only minuscule screen time . one of the best of many small subplots concerns the aforementioned messenger . we sympathize with her plight , even if she has only a few lines . the writers milk them for the emotional equivalent of heavy cream . the film goes down as smoothly as a glass of christmas eggnog . the only complaint possible is that it is such a heart-warming story that you don't want it to stop . but stop it does with an ending as satisfying as the rest of the picture . this is a movie in which it's easy to fall in love . what women want runs 2 : 06 but feels a half-hour shorter . it is rated pg-13 for sexual content and language and would be fine for teenagers . 
with large , messy dollops of self-deprecating humor , bullock makes herself into a real slob . and then in this pygmalion story , she is transformed into a beauty who is still sometimes a crude klutz no matter how glamorous she appears . tapping inner reservoirs of comedic talent that even her fans probably weren't aware of , bullock hits every joke out of the park like she is mickey mantle at a little league game . since this film is easily bullock's best since speed , one can hope that this hilarious charmer won't get buried in an avalanche of holiday releases and that moviegoers who aren't in the mood to watch tom hanks converse with a volleyball will give themselves the holiday treat of miss congeniality . rather than appreciate her spunky defenses , kids shun her . most lacking in gracie is any sign of grace . the side-splittingly funny script by marc lawrence ( forces of nature ) , katie ford and caryn lucas parcels out sharp lines to everyone , but saves some of the best for the story's star . his version of professor henry higgins and bullock's version of eliza doolittle are delightful and original . watching gracie stroll down the sidewalk , vic tells her , " oh my god , i haven't seen a walk like that since jurassic park ! " when gracie hart is transformed into gracie lou freebush -- a name rather like pussy galore from goldfinger -- she becomes gorgeous . as she views a recording of previous awards ceremonies , gracie mocks the mentally-challenged constants with the wizard of oz line , " if i only had a brain . " poor miss rhode island can't even answer softball questions . probably the easily part of a beauty pageant to spoof is the " talent " contest . what is surprising about miss congeniality is how they manage to come up with humor about the talent contest that is not only funny but fresh as well . too bad real-life pageants aren't this much fun . it is rated pg-13 for sexual references and a scene of violence and would be fine for kids around 9 and up . my son jeffrey , age 11 , laughed hard and often and gave the film * * * 1/2 . he found the movie imaginative , especially the paint scene . he liked the way that gracie's character develops , and he thought sandra bullock's acting was great . 
watching a hard day's night from 1964 , now in re-release in the theaters with a newly restored print and sound , is rather like watching an old newsreel . were we really like that ? of course , the answers are : we were , and it did . but gosh , it now seems more like a million years ago rather than just a little over a third of a century . the movie , done in a mock day-in-the-life documentary style , shows pre-teen and teenage girls swooning and screaming with such intensity that they make themselves sick . in real-life many such fans passed out and had to be carried out on stretchers . the movie , while minimizing the beatle hype , concentrates on the sheer joy of their music . whenever they are singing in the movie , which is often , the picture soars . the producers had the now radical idea of actually including entire songs , not just choppy excerpts , in the film . too bad that this technique has long since vanished . less successful than the musical numbers are the silly little non-musical episodes including ones of the boys hamming it up together . even though these four working-class blokes charm us with their natural playfulness , the reason to see a hard day's night is as the best music video ever . don't even try to keep a smile off of your face and a song out of your heart while watching the film . it's just not possible . the film is in a handsome black and white , which enhances its documentary feel . it is rated g and would be acceptable for all ages . my son jeffrey , age 11 , who is 'n sync kind of guy , thought the movie was pretty good , giving it * * 1/2 . he liked the songs the best and thought the other parts of the movie were dumb but sometimes funny . 
is e . elias merhige's shadow of the vampire a vampire movie , or is it a movie about a vampire movie or is it a spoof of a vampire movie ? yes . and the film , which stars john malkovich as director f . w . murnau and an unrecognizable willem dafoe as " actor " max schreck , who " plays " the vampire count orlock , is deliciously funny as it takes itself quite seriously . the clever script by first-time screen writer steven katz manages to eschew gore and rely instead on a wickedly humorous relationship between murnau and the vampire , with whom murnau has made a faustian bargain . the director approaches the movie as if he were a blend of sir isaac newton and cecil b . demille . actors in silent movies were forced to use exaggerated gestures in order to compensate for the absence of language . dafoe , in a performance worthy of oscar consideration , has a blast chewing up the scenery in the silent movie-within-the-movie in which he spends a large portion of his screen time . with knobby , pencil-like fingers , long , gray fingernails , dog-eaten ears and a bald head like a small meteorite , dafoe looks so funny that you're ready to laugh before he even moves or speaks . " in that hole , " the director replies , matter-of-factly . the best part of the film is the bombastic chemistry between vampire and director . " well , you don't get any ! " " why don't you eat the script girl ? " since in real life f . w . murnau was a famous director who did indeed make a film called nosferatu , perhaps shadow of the vampire is more than a mere comedy . maybe it all happened just this way . as they say , fact is stranger than fiction . it is rated r for some sexuality , drug content , violence and language and would be acceptable for teenagers . 
faithless ( trol ? sa ) , a 2-1/2 hour angst-filled drama in swedish about the everlasting trauma caused by infidelity , might sound like something you would look forward to about as much as getting your teeth drilled . but this film , based on a script by ingmar bergman and lovingly directed by his long-time collaborator liv ullmann is absolutely mesmerizing . with an astonishing central performance by lena endre as marianne , the woman who strays , the film relies on long , talking-head shots of her relating her story . watching it on television , you might be inclined to flip the channel , but , in a movie theater , the experience becomes so engrossing that your eyelids may stop blinking . the screenplay's structure is quite imaginative . although most of the story is told in flashback , ullman keeps cutting back to the study for marianne to talk directly to the camera . since these long narrative scenes are just as memorable as the flashbacks , it is hard to pick a favorite , as both are so exquisite and hauntingly composed . like the unusual structure of the script , the love affair doesn't follow the conventional cinematic formula . with a palpable honesty , the story follows an affair that starts innocently and is more about intimacy than sex . indeed , were it not for a couple of scenes with explicit sexual discussions , the film might have gotten a pg-13 rating . don't be confused , however , for this is a serious adult film . and she is right -- for a time -- since nothing happens that night . bergman's script is so full of grace and subtlety that the picture almost completely avoids incendiary polemics . the few times when emotions do run out of control are the picture's low points . no kramer vs . kramer tale , the movie keeps the focus on the adults even if it is the child who most deserves our sympathy . deeply touching , the movie will stay long in your memory , especially lena endre's absolutely unforgettable work in it . it is oscar worthy acting and certainly light-years better than juliette binoche's oscar nominated part in chocolat . the film is in swedish with english subtitles . it is rated r for sexual content , some nudity and language and would be acceptable for older teenagers . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
rob morrow writes , directs and stars in maze , a wonderfully sweet and honest film about lyle maze , an artist with turret syndrome , an obsessive disorder that causes sufferers to twitch wildly and call out . morrow successfully avoids the pitfalls of such a subject , which is no small feat . it would be easy to make it so hard to watch that only hard core art house patrons would show up or to sugarcoat the material in order to make it more commercially viable . instead , morrow paints a realistic , poignant and hopeful story that will leave you dry-eyed but quite touched . simple things like dialing a phone are tricky for lyle . painting he can handle , but the results are sometimes unpredictable . this episode , like much of the story , is played for poignancy rather than comedy . but the show isn't overly serious . lyle is full of self-deprecating humor . " trying to hold my hand is like an exercise in target practice , " he remarks . laura linney , academy award nominee for you can count on me ( the best film that almost no one saw last year ) , gives a warm performance as callie . few actresses are willing to bare it all as linney does in maze . linney can also be quite funny . even though it's predictable , maze's resolution is quite satisfying . all of the loose ends are tied up neatly but realistically . morrow should feel a tremendous sense of accomplishment because maze works on so many different levels . it's a wonderful film and an uplifting one without a single maudlin moment . it is not yet rated but would be an r for full frontal nudity and language . the film would be acceptable for older teenagers . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
caste , gender and politics turn out to be the most important aspects of the story . as the movie begins , we are instantly in awe of the beauty of setting . the women's colorful clothes of bright reds and golds are in sharp contrast to the rich brown sands . being bold enough to speak up gives her a reputation as a troublemaker . this turns out to be merely the start of the degradation . eventually , the story works its way to trial , which plays like a franz kafka short story . the movie does a masterful job of giving a feeling for the settings and the politics . the handling of the case is so ridiculous that it will make you want to know more . it is the sort of movie that stays with you and leaves you remarking , " my god ! , " as you leave the theater . sandstorm runs a bit long at 2 : 05 . the film is in hindi with english subtitles and in english . it is not rated but would be an r for sexual situations . everything is handled very discreetly by the filmmakers , which means the film would be acceptable for teenagers . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
it's an awesome responsibility for these 4 blokes , but in this heartwarming film , these guys are up for their mission . this ground level view of space exploration is actually based on a true story . although there are plenty of laughs in the dish , it is the amazing but simple story of dedication that remains in your memory after you leave the theater . making extensive use of archival footage and audio clips , the movie does a masterful job of transporting us back in time . graeme wood's warm cinematography has the saturated colors of a 1960s tv set . the musical choices are an evocative choice of memorable old pop tunes and moving dramatic pieces . in short , this is a movie that really knows how to set the mood . the writers provide rich stories and back stories for a large number of characters . the wonderment of scientific endeavor hasn't been so well displayed since october sky . what is remarkable about this story is that without these four unsung heroes , july 20 , 1969 would have lost most of its impact . without live pictures , the moonwalk would not have been nearly so dramatic or memorable . but this is a sweetly humorous , not a somberly serious , movie . the film is incorrectly rated pg-13 for brief strong language . i listened hard and don't remember any profanities . the film would clearly be acceptable for all ages , but younger children will likely get fidgety . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
in eric valli's exquisite himalaya , the first nepalese film ever to be nominated for an academy award , the villagers are faced with these simple but difficult questions . ( the english title of the film was once caravan , which is much more descriptive . ) the aged tinle seems to be in no shape to lead anything more than a trip to the well , but he insists that he can lead the caravan like he used to decades ago . their harrowing journey is visually astonishing . that the cinematography of rich browns and golds is breathtaking is obvious from the first scene . what isn't immediately obvious is that the film will become much more than just a gorgeous travelogue . the yaks , magnificent beasts of burden , become stars in their own right , but it is the human drama that captures our imagination . maybe with some big hollywood stars the film would seem a bit trite , but , with these honest , straightforward actors , the story is completely engrossing . you won't care about winners , you'll just be rooting for both sides to survive . the film is tibetan with english subtitles . it is not rated but could be a g since there is nothing to offend anyone of any age . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
christopher nolan's memento is easily the most bizarrely original film since being john malkovich . opening with the polaroid picture of a murdered body , the movie shows the photo slowly undevelop and shoot back into the camera . this turns out to be the ending of the story . the movie skips backwards and forwards thereafter with pieces of scenes being repeated , showing more context each time . the viewers find themselves absolutely mesmerized as they piece together this film which is like a jigsaw puzzle of an escher print in which pieces keep disappearing and reappearing . flaunting its ambiguity , almost every scene is open to alternate interpretations . and each new scene adds combinatorial possibilities to the explanations of previous scenes . people who like puzzles will adore this movie , as will all moviegoers who relish intelligent scripts that challenge their gray matter . on these visual note cards , he also makes important written notes to himself . he no longer remembers what caused him to record this warning and how accurate it might be . trying to fit these two into leonard's story becomes a fascinating exercise for the audience as the story keeps doubling back on itself . although an edge-of-the-seat thriller , it is frequently quite funny . i don't think they'd let someone like me own a gun . " the film also contains an intriguing back story about leonard . serving both as a story in its own right and as a mechanism to explain leonard's illness , this is one of the best subplots in a long time . although it is a brilliantly conceived and executed movie , there are a few disappointments : the ending is a bit of a letdown and the film would have been crisper if the storyline had had a few less iterations . these are minor quibbles , and this is the sort of picture that is so engrossing that you'll want to come back and see it again soon . probably a couple of times more . it is rated r for violence , language and some drug content and would be acceptable for most teenagers . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
sometimes movies transcend their descriptions . surely there can't be much of interest in that , you might think as i certainly did . well , there's a lot , as it turns out . writer/director doris d ? rrie's enlightenment guaranteed ( erleuchtung garantiert ) is a sweet , funny and absolutely delightful film about brotherly love , the meaning of life and the importance of a sense of humor in the face of adversity . think of it as a low-key version of planes , trains & automobiles in which the humorous and touching journey is the reward . the story has a pervasive but subtle spirituality to it as the destination for these brothers turns out to be more than just a place on a map . ( actually , the lack of a good map is but one of many of their problems . ) two gifted , charming actors , uwe ochsenknecht and gustav-peter w ? hler play brothers uwe and gustav in warm and sympathetic performances . both of the guys are anal retentives . they haven't been together much since they were kids , so both look forward , albeit with some amount of trepidation , to their time abroad on their big adventure . the script does quite a credible job of making this both plausible and humorous . you'll be rooting for them as they get into more and more difficulties . and you'll be touched by their reactions to their trials and tribulations . uwe particularly likes to ridicule gustav with zen quotes like , " have patience with every day of your life . " " never give up , you wimp , " they tell one another . this long middle section of the movie is the best part , but the two leads are so strong that the entire film is mesmerizing . but it is the hard manual labor of cleaning already clean floors in order to clean one's heart that proves the most troublesome for the rotund gustav . this gentle , good-spirited comedy does much more than make you laugh . it makes you think as well about what really is important in life . and it makes you realize that life's journeys are fraught with difficulties and opportunities . you'll leave the theater with a smile on your face and perhaps a bit more optimistic view of life . enlightenment guaranteed runs 1 : 49 . it is not rated but might be an r for brief nudity and language . it would be acceptable for teenagers . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
it may not rank with alexander graham bell's idea of long distance voice communication , but the team at govworks . com does have a vision . startup . com , the engrossing and enlightening documentary about govworks by chris hegedus and jehane noujaim , argues convincingly , if only by implication , that for the company's founders , tom herman and kaleil isaza tuzman , it isn't about creating " insanely great " products , as steve jobs would say , but about making insanely large amounts of money . about the only song in the film is " money ( that's all i want ) , " which just about sums up the approach of these two hard-working entrepreneurs . there probably are worker bees toiling away in the background who passionately believe in their product , but what we see are a couple of 28-year-old guys who dream of getting rich . both of them are likable guys who you want to win but who seem headed for disaster . just like the movie titanic , startup . com is fascinating even if we feel certain that the company will sink in the end . expect to see these guys on the business talk shows again . it is rated r for brief language and would be acceptable for any kid old enough to be interested in the subject . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
moulin rouge is the most audacious effort yet from director baz luhrmann , who last , in romeo + juliet , imagined two shakespearean lovers in a modern verona beach setting . this time , luhrmann turns his considerable talent to bringing back the movie musical , an art form whose obituary had supposedly long since been written . in fact there are probably enough songs in it for three musicals . the movie's phenomenal sets look like a tim burton production of willie wonka and the chocolate factory . among many imaginative and magical scenes , one has satine and christian standing on a cloud between the starry , deep blue sky and the twinkling apartment lights of paris in 1899 -- " the summer of love . " the film opens with such a long cacophony and montage of blurring images that it seems that the picture might be one of those near storyless movies like pink floyd the wall . and to answer your second : yes , they are quite good , especially mcgregor . best of all are their love duets , and their chemistry together is both credible and touching . the leading role will be sung by satine , a courtesan . a hopeless romantic , christian's fundamental believe is , " the greatest thing you'll ever learn is just to love and to be loved in return . " operatic in scope , the film assaults our senses with the sumptuous music , costumes , sets and story . with its rapid pacing , jump cuts , speed ups and slow downs , the film will leave you emotionally drained and exhilarated by the end , which does more with the " show must go on " than you could ever imagine . it is also a rare film that is such a crowd-pleaser that you're likely to hear , as we did , spontaneous applause during the movie . moulin rouge runs 2 : 10 . it is rated pg-13 for sexual content and would be acceptable for kids around 12 and up . my son jeffrey , age 12 , gave the film * * * . he had trouble with the intensity of the dying part but liked the music and the dancing . in the silicon valley , it will be showing at the amc and the century theaters . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
as mounds of material are smoothed out , the embroidered names appear . the quilt itself turns out to play a pivotal role in a movie that is so completely original that it's hard to describe . think of it as a wonderfully romantic irish leprechaun story -- heavily scored with classical russian pieces played by the moscow symphony orchestra -- about missing quilts , cows and voices . i'm not surprised , as this cute little charmer is a film to be experienced , not analyzed . some of its best humor makes no sense whatsoever if you apply logic , but it sure is funny . nigel , for example , is the farm's dog , but , since he suffers from severe agoraphobia , he is seen only as a moving , barking box that is used to allay his fears . i thought she was going to wear it on her toe . it's that kind of story . in place of leprechauns we have " the jacksons , " whom everyone knows about , but no one is quite sure what they look like or even what size they are . some people think that they are tiny , and others believe that they are giants . the whimsical , romantic and dramatic music so makes the movie that it would be hard to envision the film without it . i can't think of any movie quite like the price of milk . in a time in which every movie seems as fresh as microwaved leftovers , the price of milk proudly stands alone . nothing like nuking a big bowl of previously frozen english peas to satisfy her man . the price of milk runs a breezy 1 : 27 . it is rated pg-13 for drug use , sensuality and brief nudity and would be fine for kids around 12 and up . 
in the mood for love is a beautifully shot , romantic drama that is unrelentingly sad but touchingly honest . like the age of innocence , the picture which it most resembles , the story tells of two circumspect lovers who have the bad luck to be in love and married , but not to each other . a movie which is perhaps more remarkable for what it doesn't show than what it does , it draws us into its slow rhythms from the first scene . among things left to our imagination are what their much-discussed-but-never-seen spouses are like and what , if any , physical intimacy , other than brief hand caresses , ever takes place between the two lovers . both performances are delicately nuanced and emotionally involving . she is so frozen than she looks like life itself has knocked the breath out of her . writer and director kar-wai wong's last film was happy together , which i hated . this time , however , he comes up with a brilliant script and gets stunning performances out of his stars . a keenly observant film , it has us witnessing much of the action from a distance or from an adjoining room . sometimes , we see one character but not the other in a conversation that takes place across rooms . and , sometimes , the actors leave us in the hallway as they carry on their discussions within our ear range but not within view . the actions -- maybe activities would be a more apt term -- take place in offices as well as apartments , streets and restaurants . this is particularly refreshing since films tend to ignore office locales even though real human beings spend substantial portions of their lives there . mrs . chan's tight-fitting , flowered-print dresses are uniformly alluring and beautiful , whereas mr . chow's thin ties and starched white shirts are unappealingly bland . how far it actually goes is up to the viewer's interpretation . almost the only time that we see more than their hands touch is when mr . chow provides a shoulder for mrs . chan to cry on . but the signs of increasing intimacy are unmistakable , even if modest . it's a small moment , but quite a telling one . " i don't keep secrets like you . i don't bottle things up . " we can never be quite sure what relationship mr . chow has with mrs . chan , but we can tell that its necessary secrecy eats away at mr . chow like a cancer . the movie , on the other hand , seems to have thought of nothing but , containing , as it does , four endings . in the mood for love is a hauntingly beautiful tale that will stay with you long after the last of these many endings . in the mood for love runs 1 : 37 . the film is in cantonese with english subtitles . it is rated pg for thematic elements and brief language and would be acceptable for anyone old enough to be interested in the story's themes . 
caste , gender and politics turn out to be the most important aspects of the story . as the movie begins , we are instantly in awe of the beauty of setting . the women's colorful clothes of bright reds and golds are in sharp contrast to the rich brown sands . being bold enough to speak up gives her a reputation as a troublemaker . this turns out to be merely the start of the degradation . eventually , the story works its way to trial , which plays like a franz kafka short story . the movie does a masterful job of giving a feeling for the settings and the politics . the handling of the case is so ridiculous that it will make you want to know more . it is the sort of movie that stays with you and leaves you remarking , " my god ! , " as you leave the theater . sandstorm runs a bit long at 2 : 05 . the film is in hindi with english subtitles and in english . it is not rated but would be an r for sexual situations . everything is handled very discreetly by the filmmakers , which means the film would be acceptable for teenagers . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
awful news under the circumstances . welcome to a day in the life of the oppressed -- the women of iran , at least those bold enough to want freedom independent of men . even buying a bus ticket without a man or the proper papers is almost impossible . the gripping tale , directed with great compassion by jafar panahi and written with touching subtlety by kambuzia partovi , is mesmerizing from the first scene to the last . i'm not a fan of handheld cameras since too often the filmmakers who use them create something akin to a shaky , bad home video . here , cinematographer bahram badakshani holds his camera steady but uses it to peer over the shoulders of the women and to focus it on their faces . and , oh , those faces . so tragic . don't be surprised if you find yourself jumpy after you leave the theater . it's a movie filled with palpable terror as the women in their chadors fly through the alleyways and corridors with their robes making them look black ghosts on the lam . these images will be forever indelibly marked in your memory . among many chilling stories , all told with the simplicity for which iranian filmmakers are so well known , the most unforgettable involves a three-year-old girl . this episode will break your heart . most iranian films relegate the political messages to the sometimes barely decipherable subtext , but panahi doesn't pull any punches in his denunciation of the repression by the iranian regime . don't be surprised if watching it makes you want to join a protest group against such inhumane treatment . you can try to tell yourself that your indignation is just because we westerners don't understand their culture . but it's a stretch . the film is in farsi with english subtitles . it is not rated but might be pg-13 for mature themes . it would be acceptable for any kid old enough to be concerned with serious , intense issues . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
the story revolves around relationships that look perfect but aren't , just like the bowl . carrying the bowl metaphor a bit further , this exquisite motion picture itself has a few imperfections , including being about 10 minutes too long . more disconcerting is jeremy northam's jarring italian accent which feels just as fake as his beard , which may be genuine but doesn't look it . still , these are minor quibbles . their movies always look terrific . sometimes , as in the room with a view , they let the look overwhelm the story , but other times , as in the remains of the day and the golden bowl , they come up with a story that's more than a match for the production's lush appearance . several decades ago , the bbc did a mini-series of " the golden bowl , " which was shown on masterpiece theater in america -- the prince , by the way , notes that he is a direct descendant of amerigo vespucci from whence the word america is derived . this television series is a personal favorite of mine , and , even if this film version doesn't quite measure up , it is a wonderful movie in its own right . bad idea . even after maggie knows of her husband's infidelity , she tells charlotte with something sounding like complete sincerity , " i have never thought you anything you but beautiful , wonderful and good . " one thing is certain , there are lots of truthfully good things to say about this superb motion picture from the strong ensemble cast to the striking production to the mesmerizing yet delicate story . the golden bowl runs 2 : 10 . it is rated r for a brief sex scene without nudity . the movie would be acceptable for kids around 12 or 13 and up . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
shrek , dreamworks/pdi's second computer animated answer to disney/pixar's three mega-hits ( toy story , a bug's life and toy story 2 ) -- their first was antz -- takes a bawdy approach that pushes the limits of its pg rating . you've probably never thought of using an illustrated book of children's fairy tales for outhouse toilet paper , but writers " ted elliott & terry rossio and joe stillman and roger s . h . schulman " have . maybe you'll be lucky , and your theater will be picketed by the three blind mice , who certainly are cute in the movie . with its laugh-a-minute , fast pacing , it is hard to pick out favorites . one of mine comes from the tortured gingerbread man who boldly cries out , " eat me ! " the script throws several barbs disney's way . ( you'll recall that one of the three founders of dreamworks , jeffrey katzenberg , used to work at disney under michael eisner , who kept referring to katzenberg as a midget . reportedly , lord farquaad's facial resemblance to eisner and his small stature are intentional and not so subtle jabs . ) lord farquaad's castle looks like disneyland , right down to its themed parking areas ( lancelot rather than something like pinocchio ) and singing dolls ? la " it's a small world . " i've just touched the surface of the comedic ideas that the film develops . i haven't even had a chance to mention the break-dancing pigs or the humorous possibilities of inflated snakes . even though shrek never enters pixar's rarified league , it is an imaginative and side-splitting movie that is a treat for young and old . well , perhaps not too young since the love struck dragon -- she has the hots for the donkey -- is actually kind of ferocious when she's burning up the joint . but , bathroom humor and all , shrek is such a good-spirited film that everyone will love it . my son's sixth grade class , who were there en masse at our screening , thought shrek was terrific . i concur . it is rated pg for mild language and some crude humor and would be acceptable for just about everyone . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
hironobu sakaguchi's final fantasy : the spirits within is such a ground breaking piece of cinema that it raises fundamental questions about the future of human actors in motion pictures . its computer generated humans are astoundingly lifelike in looks and motion . the eyes and eyelids are especially astonishing . but , like toy story , the magic comes more from what an intelligent script is able to accomplish with the animation . oscar nominated writer al reinert ( apollo 13 ) , joined by jeff vintar and hironobu sakaguchi , fashion an intelligent script of such depth that it's a challenge to keep up . certain aspects of story are so intricate that they are almost incomprehensible , and i mean that as a compliment . it's hard to come close to doing justice to the plot , which is set in 2065 , but i'll give it a try . aki is a lot more likeable character than ripley from aliens and more compellingly attractive than angelina jolie in lara croft : tomb raider . although there are some funny moments , final fantasy is a deadly serious thriller that keeps you on the edge of your seat . elliot goldenthal's impressive and dramatic score adds to the tension . among the many aspects of the story to decode are those of aki's recurring nightmares . on a scale in which 10 means perfect understanding and 0 represents complete incomprehensibility , most movies operate in the 8 or 9 level , especially towards the end . to it's credit , final fantasy rarely gets much higher than a 6 or 7 . the ending , rather than neatly wrapping up all the loose ends , leaves you still perplexed . older kids and adults , however , will feel rewarded and blessed to have seen something so intriguing . it is rated pg-13 for sci-fi action violence and would be acceptable for kids around 11 and up . they liked the way the story was developed and the way that it was light-years away from a cartoon . in the silicon valley , it will be showing at the amc and the century theaters . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
sometimes acceptance isn't a good idea . as the almost always wasted nicole , kirsten dunst turns in a gut-wrenchingly honest performance that reduced me to tears . if crazy/beautiful had been made by some big name director , rather than the perceptive but relatively unknown john stockwell ( " cheaters " ) , dunst might garner serious oscar consideration for her part . it is one of the best pieces of acting that i've seen this year , but most people will probably never see it , figuring that the movie is another forgettable teen comedy . they think nothing of skipping class to drink themselves silly , coming on to strangers and generally shunning any kind of positive behavior . nicole , who wins your heart early-on , looks a mess . although carlos may be safe , you can easily see nicole getting aids or some other disease from sex or needles . reportedly , the director had to cut many scenes in order to bring it in at pg-13 . it's an apt nickname for more reasons than one . with its realistic depiction of teen angst , crazy/beautiful will break your heart without ever attempting to manipulate it . one hopes that after this part , more directors will offer meaty roles to dunst , who looks like a young version of and clearly has the potential to be the next meg ryan . it is rated pg-13 for mature thematic material involving teens , drug/alcohol content , sexuality & language and would be acceptable for teenagers . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
steven spielberg's a . i . artificial intelligence is a captivating , science fiction story about the quest for motherly love . a pinocchio-like tale , it features another astonishing , guileless and certainly oscar caliber performance by haley joel osment as a robot ( `mecha' ) named david . divided into 3 sections , the movie is two and one-half parts brilliance and one-half part unnecessary , feel-good ending . reportedly , it is this last part that is uniquely a spielberg touch . kubrick , who wasn't involved after the development stage , is given only a concept credit . these mechanical wonders look exactly like humans unless you penetrate their skins with knives or x-rays . what mechas can't do is have genuine human emotions . the story raises intriguing moral questions at every turn with the greatest of these being : what does it mean to love , what responsibilities do we have as humans and what does it mean to be real ? it also poses such eternal questions of childhood as david's of , `mommy , will you die ? ' a computerized teddy bear ( voiced by jack angel ) , who asserts `i am not a toy , ' is the film's most endearing character , calling to mind spielberg's famous and loveable e . t . david is the film's most tragic character . the intricate script recalls parts of many movies , including sid's toy chest from toy story and the bar scene from the original star wars . stan winston's robotic special effects are amazing , as always . mechas are chopped up , blown up , melted and otherwise slaughtered to delight a cheering crowd . he's a love doll , who does not really love , but can only `make love . ' robin williams -- who else ? -- does a nice turn as the humorous dr . know , a franchised , electronic knowledge dispenser , to whom david turns for advice . john williams's music with its creepy undercurrents reminds us to always be on our guard . filmed in a beautiful haze by janusz kaminski ( shindler's list ) , the movie keeps you on the edge of your seat as you are sweep into its mysteries and its characters . after reaching an absolutely perfect concluding spot , the last act tacks on a long feel good ending that is more likely to infuriate than to please . the result is less than a masterpiece but much , much more than the typical movie fare . and it is , thankfully , a summer movie with something on its mind . a . i . artificial intelligence runs 2 : 20 . it is rated pg-13 for some sexual content and violent images and would be acceptable for kids around 12 and up . my son jeffrey , age 12 , gave it * * 1/2 . he thought it was interesting and had impressive images . he was troubled by what he thought were many logical holes . he also complained that it ended at the wrong place , saying , `not all fairy tales have to end perfectly in happy endings . ' he , independently , wished that the film would have ended in exactly the same spot that i did . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
the twist this time is that rather than playing her usual brainiac part , she is a ditzy blonde but one with a hidden turbo charger in her brain . this ditzy but driven personality allows the screenwriters , karen mccullah lutz and kirsten smith ( both from 10 things i hate about you ) , great latitude in developing the comedy . ( maybe the movie brings out your inner ditz , as i spilled iced tea all over myself while writing this review . ) " what , it's like hard ? " the movie is filled with these visuals that are so funny that you'll be laughing even if the sound system fails . filled with lots of big laughs , the movie is willing to take the risk to pause at unlikely times to have some serious moments . most movies would have her shrieking away in horror , but in legally blonde , rather than being embarrassed , elle toughs it out and acts natural . as natural as possible , that is , when her considerable physical assets are on display for all to see . after legally blonde , it would be easy to envision reese witherspoon producing , directing , writing , editing and starring in her own movies . she has such unbounded energy and optimism that it would appear she could do anything that she sets out to accomplish . i can't wait to see what's in store for her next . it is rated pg-13 for language and sexual references and would be acceptable for kids around 10 and up . my son jeffrey , age 12 , who laughed a lot during the movie , gave it * * * 1/2 . he thought it was really funny , imaginative and interesting . he especially liked all of the courtroom scenes . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
without pulling any punches , the movie shows the kids in reckless behavior from unprotected sex to drugs to violence . this unrated movie -- it would be nc-17 -- is a powerful anti-drug film since it shows what is possible if you live your life stoned . it also speaks volumes about the story's oblivious parents , who could charitably be called " less than helpful " to their kids . shot handsomely on film , not video , this indie picture has a polish and an accessibility that kids , which i hated , lacked . and the scenes of the teens engaging in one wild sex act after another -- including one with hot wax -- are undeniably erotic . clark seems hell bent on making as realistic a movie as possible , and almost none of the characters are sympathetic . and cheap thrills seem to be what the kids in this story crave . sex with strangers and lots of pot and acid just never seem to be enough to stave off their boredom . the movie is careful to cast average to attractive looking actors who appear to be the spitting images of the kids at your local mall . the actors who play the characters deliver such flawless performances that they don't even appear to be acting . it is chilling watching them . " what do you mean ? " " i don't know , " heather honestly replies . these are a bunch of teenagers whose brains were long since fried . other movies , such as the river's edge , have covered similar material , but few have done it better and more realistically than bully , a movie that you won't soon forget . one of the movie's last images is of marty's brother wearing an ironic " dare to say no to drugs and violence " t-shirt as he looks sadly on what has happened to marty . it is a fitting ending visual . it is not rated but would be nc-17 for pervasive drug usage , strong sexuality , violence and full-frontal nudity . the film is playing in nationwide release now in the united states -- probably for just a short run . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
an even bigger surprise than the briefly pudgy roberts is that catherine zeta-jones , as gwen , turns out to be wonderful at comedy , playing a pampered bitch with great panache and perfect timing . gwen plays the crowd with great swagger and confidence , but she's hell on wheels when out of the public's view . hector , the film's silliest character , has a heavy accent . the story's challenge is a press junket without a movie since hal ( christopher walken ) , the iconoclastic director of gwen and eddie's last movie together , won't show anyone the picture until the press junket . this classic screwball comedy features four actors ( roberts , zeta-jones , cusack and crystal ) performing superbly . just like the press , all you have to do is sit back and enjoy the action in this wonderful blend of physical and written comedy . the real mystery is whether the film will ever show up , and , if it does , what it will be like . trust me . you will not be disappointed . it's hard to see how she won't get trampled in the jurassic park iii juggernaut . still , one thing is certain , this film is a real crowd pleaser with laughs so big and often that you're going to miss some of the lines . if you're more in the mood for laughs than action , go for america's sweethearts . you'll be glad you did . it is rated pg-13 for language , some crude and sexual humor and would be fine for kids around 10 and up . my son jeffrey , age 12 , who laughed long and hard , gave it * * * * . he said that it is one of the best films that he's seen lately . he said that it had two really good female comedians , but everyone was great . he commented too on how surprised he was that zeta-jones could do comedy so well . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
the others , brilliantly written and directed by alejandro amen ? bar , is the quietest movie of the year , with characters who rarely talk much above a whisper and with background sounds that are only a couple of decibels higher than dead silence . but don't worry , you won't miss anything since you'll be on the edge of your seat throughout the most spell-binding mystery since the sixth sense . for the longest time , amen ? bar keeps us unsure not only as to what actually is happening but also as to what kind of mystery it is . perhaps it's a ghost story . but it could be a psychological drama . then again , it might be something else entirely . as you watch it , don't get cocky . even if you think you have figured it out , you may be wrong in more ways than one . as one character remarks prophetically , " there are going to be some big surprises . " the central character in this fascinating thriller is nicole kidman in a great and creepily intensive performance . this is reminiscent of the way that haley joel osment managed to outdo bruce willis in the sixth sense . the events that unfold completely shake her confidence . and that is only the setup for this intriguing story . that's all i am going to tell you , which isn't much . this much i can guarantee , as you keep trying to guess where the story is headed , you will not be disappointed when it gets there . it is rated pg-13 for thematic elements and frightening moments and would be fine for kids around 12 and up , depending entirely on how well they can handle fear of the unknown . in the silicon valley , it will be showing at the amc and the century theaters . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
with darby's little mustache , he looks like a classic villain . beau is a good kid with a bright future . he turns out not to be at all what you'd expect in a blackmailer . the entire story is told with quietness and subtlety , and his reserved but persistent character fits right in . the press notes mention that alfred hitchcock chose elisabeth sanxay holding's novel , " the blank wall , " upon which the script is based , for his classic anthology , " my favorites in suspense . " it is easy to see why hitchcock was attracted to this tale . and the son and the mother , who love each other but don't communicate well -- sound familiar ? -- also have a completely different understanding of the basic facts of the case . set in a remote tahoe house and filmed in cool blues and warm earth tones , the picture has an intriguing and inviting look . we stay glued to the screen , wanting to shout out suggestions to the characters and feeling like crying about the tragedy in which they have found themselves engulfed . it is filled with easy characters to empathize with . as we see the time is winding down for the conclusion , we remain at a loss to figure out how this story can ever be wrapped up . what you will remember most after the movie is over is tilda swinton's amazing performance . it is rated r for " some violence and language , and for a strong sex scene " and would be acceptable for older teenagers . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
i was privileged to see this classic suspense movie on the big screen at a local revival house , the stanford theater . our almost packed audience ate it up , especially its wry comedy . listening to the conversations beforehand , it seemed that about half of the people there had not seen it before . well , both new and old viewers were in for a treat . in one of the movie's unintentionally funny scenes , he turns two enormous spotlights on a suspect during an interrogation . they did that a lot in crime dramas in the 40s . another visual that seems funny now , but probably wasn't then , is the sight of one of laura's big hats with its huge floppy ears made of a gaudy plaid . since the story is told mainly in flashback , we see a lot of laura . waldo is proud of his caustic and self-centered personality . it's the secret of my charm . " he provides a deliciously snide narration for the film . the story , after following a intriguing but nonetheless conventional structure through most of the movie , has a dramatic twist just before the last act . it is the twist , as much as the acting , that i suspect is the secret to the film's long lasting appeal . i do have one confession to make . it may be viewed as heresy by the movie's many fans , but i think that this is a story that could have been even better if alfred hitchcock had directed it . preminger too often goes for the laughs when hitchcock would have treated it all a bit more sinisterly and seriously . the film is in black and white . it is not rated but might be pg for mild violence . it would be fine for kids old enough to be interested in the story , which probably means kids around 12 and up . the movie is available on tape but not yet on dvd . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
the movie has some of the most impressive cinematography ( elem ? r rag ? lyi , jacob the liar ) of the year . from a rich technicolor look that mimics movies of the period to intriguing black-and-white flashback sequences , it is hard to pick out a visual favorite . the 60s , in particularly , is a hard era to recreate without producing parody . is there anything i would change ? not much . i'd lose the boy on the bike with the big american flag , which was a little too clich ? d even if it did provide a nice two-second visual . if you leave happily teary eyed , don't be surprised . but don't worry , you'll won't feel manipulated . an american rhapsody runs a nearly perfect length at 1 : 43 . it is rated pg-13 for " some violent content and thematic material , " and would be acceptable for any kid old enough to be interested in such serious stories . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
making a movie that's stupid fun must be really hard since most filmmakers that try end up with a picture that's merely stupid . rarely are they as successful as ben stiller is with zoolander , a film in which he is the director , star and co-writer . the laughs come loud and often . and there aren't any that will leave you embarrassed for succumbing to laughter . both physical and verbal , the jokes are not only silly but good-spirited as well , as the comedy pokes fun at the male modeling profession . or maybe not . stiller , certainly is . the speech pattern alone that he developed for the movie is worth the price of admission , and it's hard to figure out if he is better as a director , writer or star . i suspect , however , that he could have gotten his movie made a lot cheaper . from production designer robin standefer to costumer david c . robinson , everyone associated with it clearly had so much fun that they probably would have worked for nothing . and speaking of people who were probably paid just scale , the movie has a long series of great cameos . my favorite cameo is david duchovny's as the world's most famous hand model . most of the movie , however , concerns itself more with the life and times of male models than with any dastardly deed . " did you ever think that there was more to life than being really , really , really good looking ? " he and his buddies have a music video moment that proves too hot for them to handle , but it does get them properly memorialized . among the many excellent minor characters is milla jovovich playing a natasha-like character called katinka . the jokes come so fast that it would probably take a couple of viewings to catch them all . among many superb scenes , none outdoes the " walk off . " it's a cross between a boxing match and a drag race . and like the rest of the movie , it's hilarious . it is rated pg-13 for " sexual content and drug references " and would be acceptable for kids around 12 and up . my son jeffrey , age 12 , gave the film * * * 1/2 . he found it really funny and quite creative . in the silicon valley , it will be showing at the amc and the century theaters . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
innocence is a rarely told tale of seniors in love that is written and directed with a graceful delicateness by paul cox . starring three veteran australian actors , julia blake ( my brilliant career ) , charles 'bud' tingwell ( the dish ) and terry norris , the film is superbly and touchingly acted . although they may be in their waning years , the movie's seventyish characters demonstrate a palpable zest for the essence of life and love . the sometimes surprising story is wonderfully moving without being overly sentimental and completely honest while avoiding cheap theatrics . utterly in love , they stop to kiss and caress . in a film that has so much is right about it that it's hard to list everything , it should be pointed out that the casting of these two is quite perfect . besides spouses , claire and andreas have children and grandchildren . you may well wonder what an affair among seniors is like . certainly , the cinema gives us little guidance as to what we should expect . affairs in movies rarely occur with anyone older than middle age . his initial reaction isn't what you'd expect . since the story focuses on the love that claire and andreas have for each other , it would be easy to have john be either unimportant or some kind of clich ? . instead , terry norris infuses his character with a mixture of hopelessness , confusion and resoluteness . " i'm tired . this is a perfect sentiment for our times . it is not rated but would be r for sexual situations and nudity and would be acceptable for teenagers . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
he's downright filthy . played wonderfully against type by denzel washington , alonzo is the role that could win washington ( the hurricane and malcolm x ) his long deserved best actor oscar to go along with his supporting actor oscar for glory . you may find yourself feeling almost uneasy given how much you enjoy watching his character . you want to loathe him , and you do , but washington gives alonzo a disturbingly appealing side . this strongly violent film never pulls its punches . hoyt enters the day nervous that he won't be found worthy of being a narc and ends it nervous that he won't see the sunrise . in between is one terrific motion picture , albeit a depressingly engrossing one . hoyt doesn't know quite what to make of alonzo and constantly seems confused as to what is happening . alonzo makes it almost plausible that smoking dope is important training . " are you a wolf or a sheep . " but alonzo isn't just any wolf . it's all very disorienting . interlaced with these close-ups are slow-motion shots that give the audience a constant feeling of dread . although the conclusion is satisfying , it's too over the top and too long . if the last act were up to the quality of the rest of the movie , we might legitimately hear this film being talked about in the same breath as l . a . confidential and hear oscar buzz for it . instead , expect to see just washington's name in the oscar lineup . it is rated r for " brutal violence , pervasive language , drug content and brief nudity " and would be acceptable for older teenagers . in the silicon valley , it will be showing at the amc and the century theaters . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
leelee sobieski delivers the best performance of her career in christine lahti's my first mister . both funny and touching , sobieski plays jennifer -- she prefers to be called simply j -- a character who's the complete opposite of the leader of the math nerds she played in never been kissed . like the highly acclaimed ghost world , my first mister concerns the world of rebellious teens . but for my money , my first mister is a much more accessible and successful film . our first glimpse of sobieski is a shock , since we think of her as the sweet girl-next-door type . after a painful sequence watching her remove her body metal , we witness j's transformation from heavy metal rebel to a bit more sedate teen . jill franklyn's script is sharp and dead-on in its humor and its pathos . " i'm old . other than the age and clothes , the main difference between them is that j contemplates suicide and engages in self-mutilation . lahti has a gifted touch with her material . we sympathize with both j and r , but we never feel manipulated by any cheap theatrics . you will laugh , you may cry and you will certainly be touched by this unusual story of these two , new best friends . my first mister runs 1 : 49 . it is rated r for " language and some sexual material " and would be acceptable for teenagers . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
the man who wasn't there , by the acclaimed coen brothers , director and co-writer joel and co-writer ethan , is an exquisite film noir shot on fine grain color stock and printed in gorgeous and expressive black and white . the movie premiered at this year's cannes film festival , where it tied for the best director award . if it can be argued that the coen brothers' pictures are an acquired taste , i guess that most people are still acquiring it . i've liked films of theirs that most others didn't ( the big lebowski ) , hated some that got mixed reviews ( o brother where art thou ) and loved some that just about everybody loved ( fargo ) . he is not only the lead character , ed crane , but also the story's constant narrator , which is handy since ed's a taciturn kind of guy . if a building were in flames , he'd probably stay silent , figuring that , if he waits , someone else will yell , " fire ! " thornton's minimalist performance is perhaps the best piece of acting that he's ever done . every time he appears on the screen , it is as if time freezes . set in the late 1940s , when land yachts still had some class , the movie takes place mainly in interior settings , although the few cruises down the country roads form the film's most impressive visuals . ed doesn't have much ambition , and his only desire in life would probably be for people to stop gabbing so much . with his bad toupee , poorly fitting suit and pudgy body , creighton is not exactly the sort to inspire confidence , but he describes to ed a revolutionary new process called " dry cleaning . " ed's story of the proposal is typical of the script's wonderfully dry sense of humor . " don't you want to get to know me better ? " he asked her . " why ? " needless to say , there are a few complications along the way which lead to a trial . an attorney with a big ego -- " i litigate . i don't capitulate . " -- he is a firm believer in such esoteric defense strategies as employing the heisenberg uncertainty principle , even if he can't ever seem to get the name right . a couple of small subplots add a little variety . another concerns ed's interest in the growth and styling of hair . both add delicate spice to the plot without ever spoiling it . a very quiet movie with little ambient sound , with occasional staccato piano pieces and with the aforementioned stunning cinematography , it allows one to concentrate on the picture's best aspect , billy bob thornton's pensive yet subtly nuanced facial expressions , which alone are worth the price of admission . it is rated r for a scene of violence and would be acceptable for teenagers . my son jeffrey , age 12 , found that this wasn't his cup of tea , giving it just 1/2 of a star . he found the lead character uninteresting and the movie boring . his only positive comment was that some of the comedy was " okay . " just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
colonel chabert is one fantastic movie . among those who truly excelled were : the two leads , one supporting role , the director , the set decorator , and the cinematographer . everyone else who touched the movie was gifted as well . colonel chabert , by the great author balzac , is a mystery and a drama . even more important , it is a character study of four people . this plot setup happens in the first few minutes of the show . >from that point on , expect many surprises . i challenge you to guess the ending . i will only say that the ending is good , and yet it leaves you with some ambiguities and a few loose ends . my favorite part of the show is easily the academy award quality supporting actor role of the lawyer . he is tricky , complex , and absolutely mesmerizing . depardieu and ardant do award-caliber work as well . it is a joy to see such great artists at work . the cinematography is marvelous through out , but it is at the height of perfection in the lighting on the faces and in the blue gray of the lawyer's office . the office itself reminds me of something by one of the great dutch painters like vermeer . this and many other scenes show the brilliance in the set decoration . the overall composition of the show and the careful direction of all of the characters means that much of the credit has to go to the director , yves angelo . i read that this was his directorial debut , in which case , i eagerly await his second directing job . what would i change , probably nothing . if you see the show and give it * * * * , i would not argue with you . i almost did myself . the movie is perfectly timed and runs 1 : 50 . it is in french with easy to follow english subtitles . it is not rated , but i would guess it would get pg-13 for a total of about five minutes of battle scenes . other than the battles , there is no sex , violence , nudity , or bad language of any kind . i think any child over ten could see it and any teenager would enjoy it . i strongly recommend it and rate it * * * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are solely mine & not meant to reflect my employer's . 
before sunrise is a romantic talkfest . it is a two character movie featuring julie delpy ( last seen in white ) and ethan hawke . the movie happens almost in real time since it all takes place in less than 24 hours . the movie has a realness to it that approaches almost a documentary feel . this is not surprising since it was written and directed by richard linklater whose first movie was the black and white avant-garde slacker . before sunrise , on the other hand , is a main stream movie albeit one with a wonderfully fresh approach . as one who has traveled on trains where i was constantly overhearing conversations in languages i knew little of , this was so familiar . they talk about everything as the script is written bright , interesting , and extremely natural . many lines were worth remembering . i could see this scene again and again . if you love trains and vienna , as i do , this movie will be a special treat for you . you get to see the prater amusement park , the opera house , demels coffee house , and many other landmarks , but the movie is no travelogue ; it is about conversations and romance . notice , i said romance as in infatuation and kissing . whether anything more transpires between them , you will have to see the show . the scenes where they discuss how far to take their friendship that evening are natural , honest , and a lot of fun to eavesdrop on . through out the show , i laughed out loud many times at the sort of natural things that can happen in romantic conversation . what would i change about the show ? almost nothing . i do think i would have him lose that goatee . it was too 50s beatnik looking . the acting was terrific . it was easy to identify with the characters , and you certainly cared a lot about both of them . you really wonder when you leave the show what are they doing now and then you pinch yourself and remember that it was fiction . the largest amount of credit has to go to the writer/director who was confident enough of his script and cast to let the two leads just talk constantly for the entire movie . before sunrise runs a well paced 1 : 40 . it is incorrectly rated r . this is without a doubt a pg-13 show . it has absolutely nothing to offend other than some uses of the f word . i recommend it to anyone , but especially to romantics and to lovers of the english language . if you have to have a lot of action or a strongly driven plot , you may be disappointed by the movie as it has neither . it easily won a * * * 1/2 rating in my book . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . reviewed written on : january 29 , 1995 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
from this initial plot setup the show is filled with many characters and takes numerous twists and turns . you can see any of them without seeing any of the others since they are all unrelated in any real sense . who are all of the other minor , but important characters in what is essentially a two person drama , and what is the purpose of their roles ? even more slowly we begin to see what importance he will have to the model's future . we know much more about every character , but much is left unknown . you may hate the ending , you may like , or you may just be confused by it all . on the suggestion box in the show , someone had written , " i wish you would explain to me what red was all about " . personally , i liked the ending and found it consistent with the rest of the movie . go to the bathroom before you enter the theater ; you will not want to miss a minute of the dialog . the writing is crisp , and the pacing is deliberately and correctly slow . much to ponder in every scene . the camerawork is quite imaginative in the angles it uses yet it is never cutesy . the show was filmed too dark for me , but i am sure this was carefully chosen to reflect the somber mood of the piece . as good as the leads were , the director/writer deserves most of the credit . other than filming it a bit brighter , what else would i change ? well , i would have liked to have seen the character of the model opened up a bit more . i would have also preferred to see some of the minor characters developed more . on the whole though , i would not change much . at the end of the movie , an older gentlemen struck up a conversation with me for some reason . what do you think it was about ? " i reflected a moment and then told him to me the show was teaching us that your life is an enigma , but ultimately you have a destiny with someone and that destiny will eventually be revealed to you . he said he could see my theory too . if any of you see it , let me know what you think its message was . the timing is good , and the show runs 1 : 39 . it is rated r for adult material and for one 5 second scene of a nude man from the rear . any aged teenager who likes serious adult mysteries would enjoy this show . i recommend it to everyone over 12 , and i give * * * 1/2 . this is a film that has you thinking long after you leave the theater . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
disclosure is the latest of the michael crichton's ( the dinosaur guy's ) novels to be made into a movie . the rest of the movie is about the sexual harassment charges and countercharges , but there is much more going on in the plot that just that . this is one of those can you suspend disbelief or not movies . you have to believe or ignore that in a meeting of mixed sexes in a modern computer company you could have constant explicit conversations about sex including explicit--very explicit joking . finally , you have to believe that women can be guilty of rape in an office setting . i managed to just ignore the plausibility of most of it and accept the rest as well maybe it could happen . if you can get through the first ten minutes , you are in for a great show . the movie has the days of the week printed in stark white sans serif letters on a totally black background as the days switch making you feel like you are reading one of those exciting books that you just can not put down as it races to its conclusion . the three leads in the show are all great and perfectly cast . i cannot see bening doing near as good as moore - who had a tough part to play and did it extremely well . douglas was the real star of the show . i thought he was good enough to deserve consideration for an oscar nomination . you could feel the panic in him . okay , it was similar to some other parts he has played , but he was , nevertheless , terrific in his role . the script was very funny in parts . lots of loud laughter in the theater . there is a two word piece of dialog at the end that douglas whispers that had the audience applauding , laughing , and cheering at the same time . one of the other many memorable lines was when moore said that their company's " technology was so good it gave people what religion was always promising , but never has been able to deliver . " there was no need to have the implausible beginning . this is my only criticism of the film , and the only reason it did not get my top rating . the movie runs lightning fast and 2 : 00 long . it is rated r for sex and profanity . i think it would be okay for some of the older teenagers . i recommend the movie strongly to adults especially those who like mysteries because that is what it ultimately turns out to be . i give disclosure * * * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
they invite a dozen of their friends to watch it and they do the play , sans costumes , just for the sheer enjoyment of acting . louis malle heard of this and decided to film and direct one of these gatherings . you may remember mamet from many of his well written movies--my favorites being house of games ( 1987 ) and things change ( 1988 ) . his staccato style of terse , biting , and thought provoking dialog is unrivaled . ( okay , it is sort of like harold pinter , but pinter is so depressing ) . sad to say the love is not mutual . there are several other actors and actresses with important parts in the play . all did a wonderful job , but for me it was shawn and moore that really stood out as giving terrific performances . i do not remember the original uncle vanya so i can not say for sure how much mamet modified it , but i suspect a fair amount . i found the dialog fairly perfect as presented in this movie . i recommend vanya on 42nd street to everyone old enough to be interested in serious material . it is rated pg simply because of its adult themes--there is no sex , nudity , or violence of any kind . it is not a happy movie , but it is a very thought provoking one . i award it * * * 1/2 . it runs a well paced 1 : 59 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
black beauty is not a story * about * a horse , it is the autobiography as told * by * the horse . this latest of a long string of black beauty adaptations is simply wonderful from start to finish . this is a movie that does not pull the punches . bad things look like they might happen on several occasions and sometimes they really do . this , of course , makes love and triumph even more appreciated . too often the producers of kids movie take no risks . the homogenized and safe movie they end up with , offends no one , but bores half of the audience . producers peter macgregor-scott and robert shapiro were willing to take risks and they made the movie that truly comes alive with all of the spices , joys , anguish , fears , and triumphs of real life . besides the perfect scripting and directing , there are many other marvelous aspects to the show . the city was made to look dark and foreboding in contrast . clearly , the countryside was heaven and the city , hell , but here we find some bad people in heaven and some good people in hell . the star nevertheless was black beauty . i believe that even people who don't care much for horses would love this show - it is that good . we know black beauty's every thought . this was not done in some trite fashion as in all those movies where the babies talk to us . the show makes you feel as if you had been reincarnated and were a horse in 19th century england . this it should be point out was not an easy time to be a horse because people used them for everything from pulling a taxicab to pulling heavy coaches to being the semi ( lorry to you british readers ) of their time to just generally being worked until you dropped if you got a cruel owner . the movie runs a quite short 1 : 29 since this time include some long credits . i could easily have gone for longer , but then the kids would probably have gotten antsy . the movie is correctly rated g . my 5 year old boy loved it even though he got scared in parts . he rates it as his absolute favorite movie - even above his second favorites , the lion king and lassie . personally i think black beauty is by far the best kids' show i have seen since my son was born and i started thinking about movies for youngsters . i rate it * * * 1/2 and recommend it to all . i came very close to giving it all 4 stars . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
god , i love tom clancy stories . i went to see clear and present danger with high expectations and was never disappointed . i had read the book a few years ago when it first came out in hard cover . i could swear i had seen this movie before because some of the places , like in the drug lord's home , were exactly as i had imagined them from the book . heavy deja vu . after watching the recent hearings into the tip of the whitewater iceberg , this show could not have been more up-to-date and relevant . deja vu again . the movie is filled with several action scenes that keep you on the edge of your seat . my favorite is the one on ryan's first trip to columbia . great tension . watch for the excellent editing by neil travis and as he cuts back and forth between the good guys and the bad guys . the cuts and the action seem to speed up right along with your own increased heartbeat . the directing by phillip noyce showed a real understanding on how to bring a clancy movie to the screen with maximum tension and suspense . other than clancy's story , what makes this movie really click is harrison ford . some of the supporting characters were great . one of his best roles i think . my only complain with clear and present danger was that at 2 hours and 16 minutes , it was way too short ! there was a lot of material that was included but stuck in too abruptly by the screenwriters , john milius , donald l . stewart , and steven zaillian , and not developed enough . 4 hours would have been perfect , but it would not have made much money . 3 hours would have been a better compromise i think , but then again , i am not a multimillionaire movie mogul so why should they take my advice . it is rated pg-13 for violence , and i agree with the rating . i think teenagers will love this show as did i . i highly recommend it and award it * * * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . reviewed written on : august 26 , 1994 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
like water for chocolate is a wonderful , magical movie from mexico . it is a tragedy of shakespearean proportions . as i watched it , i keep thinking it reminded me of shakespeare's play romeo and juliet and of wager's opera gotterdammerung . within the confines of the basic plot setup is the heart of the movie . try to imagine what she does . i can only say : wow ! this food magic is the heart of the movie . i will not give any of it away , but i will say this . if your sweetheart seems to love cooking above all else and is extremely talented at it , then watch out ! watch the lighting especially . the nights scenes are all candlelit and have a wonderful dark radiant glow . the day scenes inside have the natural light pouring in with a different beautiful lighting effect . i liked the way the girl was kind of cute but mainly homely . her acting was just about perfect . very easy to hate the mother . like water for chocolate is in spanish with easy to follow english subtitles . the movie is a short 1 : 53 . it is rated r for a few scenes of full nudity of both sexes , but i think pg-13 would have been more appropriate . i think it would be an excellent show for teenagers to see . oh yes , the ending is excellent . i recommend you see it and have no trouble awarding it * * * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
wow ! speed is die hard with all of the slow parts taken out . one non-stop roller coaster of a movie . the woman next to me ( seriously ) had her fingers in her ears during the entire movie . amazing to me at least , i found a movie where keanu reeves ( awful in much ado about nothing and only slightly better in little buddha ) finally proves that not only can he act , he can be do some great stuff if he is cast and directed right . daniels is the brains and reeves is the guts of this team . paris trout ) but can be an excellent actor if the director keeps him under control . he is terrific in this movie because of the director , jan de bont . lots of small actors do a great job . good slightly underdone , ongoing romance between her and reeves . the plot of the show sounds pretty ridiculous on the surface , a bus must never be driven under 50 miles per hour , or it will explode . in the show it works fine . keeping the bus going at this speed in la traffic can be pretty hard . many great stunt and driving scenes . watch the words on the bus and on the billboards for douses of subtle humor . the script by graham yost is filled with memorable one liners . one of my favorite parts of the script is : " pop quiz . what do you do ? you will have to see the show to hear why this makes sense . speed runs 1 : 56 but feels like half that since it goes so fast . it carries a well deserved r rating for violence . every teenager in america will probably want to see it and will undoubtedly enjoy it if they go . it easily won * * * 1/2 from me and a big recommendation . watch out when you leave the theater . your adrenaline is liable to be rushing so much that you are bouncing off walls . best to have a designated driver who does not get to see the movie . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . reviewed written on : june 26 , 1994 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
it had the energy of a great powerful mahler ( or perhaps shostakovich ) symphony . it was in four parts , and except for the andante 2nd movement , it was one with all of the horns and kettle drums at full force . like mahler there was even the light playful little parts in the heat of show as great and hilarious one liners would send the audience into laughter and then off we were again into another cliff hanger . for those non-musicologists , think of james bond , but a lot more believable . think of the recent movie speed , but give it some heart and give it even better action shots . and you thought your day was hectic . the only flaw in the movie is the slow 2nd part . it works pretty well with the exception of the interrogation scene which has been called cruel by some critics . you can judge for yourself . i did not care for that scene , but did like the other parts of the movement albeit not near as much as the rest of movie . it has some of the best and most realistic stunts in a long time . the script was very creative and imaginative . this scene has great tension and yet is funny at the same time in the movie . there are many scenes where one must suspend disbelief , but in this movie it is extremely easy . you will have to see the movie to find out . if i explained it , you wouldn't understand . if you read the credits you can see how he fired the original 3 screenwriters and then took over the writing job himself and rewrote their script . it is terrific . i found myself clapping many times at some of the action scenes during the show and many times i was laughing out loud . ditto for numerous other members of the audience . the acting is top-notch all around . schwarzenegger is at his best . i was surprised to see tom arnold do an excellent job as the other spy . teenagers i am sure will be cheering loudly for her . tia carrere is a great and gorgeous terrorist helper . it is rated r . schwarzenegger kills tons of people but with fairly minimal blood or gore . i think teenagers will love this movie , but i would not take a child younger than 13 . i recommend true lies most highly . i came very close to rating it * * * * , but in the end i gave it * * * 1/2 because the andante was not on the same par as the rest of the movie . see this film on biggest screen you can find . too bad it is not available on imax . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
if you like documentaries ( i love them ) or if you are interested in the making of films especially the cinematography and the editing , i have an excellent film to recommend called the wonderful , horrible life of leni riefenstahl . it is making short stops throughout the country . i have also seen this movie referred to as the power of the image : leni riefenstahl . leni riefenstahl , now aged 90 , but looks much younger , was blessed with being one of the most gifted filmmakers ever . her 1935 nazi documentary , called triumph of the will , has been labeled in retrospect as the most important propaganda film ever made . in response she keeps getting upset and saying she was not pro-nazi but just pro-german and that she didn't really realize everything that was going on , etc . heavy denial . you can watch this part for yourself and see what you believe . the most interesting part of the film , has riefenstahl talking about making films , about camera work , and about editing . these were physically challenging films where , without any stunt people , she had to climb sheer mountain peaks - often barefoot and with no ropes . sometimes the scenes required her to be tied up and have simulated or real avalanches fall on her . she went from acting to directing during this period although she stared in some of her movies , e . g . , the blue light , as well . they also tried stuff that proved useless like sending up a balloon with a small camera attached . she then spent 2 years of long hours doing nothing but editing the film . even after the war , olympiad was voted one of the 10 best films of all time by the americans . given her zeal for perfection she never made any of this footage into a movie . seeing this 90 year old swimming around making movies is amazing . the wonderful , horrible life of leni riefenstahl is a excellent film , but it needed riefenstahl to edit it more ! at 2 : 15 it would have been much better . the underwater part that takes up the last half hour or so should have been cut to 5 . the interrogation about why didn't she emigrate in the 30s was too repetitious and should have been cut in half . you could really experience her energy and her drive for cinematic perfection . i give the movie * * * 1/2 and strongly recommend it to all cinema buffs . it is unrated , but would probably rated pg . kids over 8 interested in movie making or in history would be fine seeing it . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . reviewed written on : may 24 , 1994 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
it could happen to you was originally titled " cop gives waitress $2m tip " which was a better title , but except for the current blah , generic title , i have nothing but good things to say about this wonderful , romantic , and life affirming movie . there is a great narrator who appears early and late in the show , and who shows up some in-between as a speechless observer . although it is true , it is told as a fairy tale and , moreover , a wonderful romance . the basic plot setup is that a cop ( nicolas cage ) , gives a waitress ( bridget fonda ) a tip of half of his lottery ticket . some are predictable , but many are not . there is an instant romance and visible chemistry between cage and fonda that is a joy to behold . you see this in the first 5 minutes of the movie . it makes you feel good to be alive . their acting is terrific . several times , i thought they were going to burst into song . it is that kind of movie . great mood music in it too . small things like the setting in queens were well done . amazing that . the movie starts wonderfully , ends great , and has perfect pacing throughout . it could happen to you is rated pg and has nothing to offend anyone of any age . i can not see someone younger than say 9 being interested in it . if your kids like romance , then they are probably old enough to enjoy this movie . i rate it * * * 1/2 and highly recommend it . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
if you are an alcoholic , if any of your close friends or relatives are , or if you or your close friends have a problem with anger and depression , then when a man loves a woman should be in your don't miss category . it is arguably , the most realistic film ever made about the totality of an alcoholic's life from the highs to the lows and from addiction to recovery and equally important about what it does to the loved ones around them . watch the husband and especially the kids in this movie . they are totally believable and thereby make you feel very sad and frighten for their characters . the directing by luis mandoki takes risks with the audience by assuming they want honesty over entertainment . this is a frightening show and not a fun one . the script by ronald bass and al franken goes for the jugular in many of the scenes . the movie starts with the signs of alcoholism starting to rear its ugly head , but with many good times for meg as she gets high and does lots of wild and crazy things . this is only show i can remember where they smoked , and it made sense for them to do so . when a man loves a woman is an appropriately long show at 2 : 06 , but it needed the time to fully document the problems . it is correctly rated r for some scary and realistic material . if your teenagers want to see it , be sure and go with them and then discuss it afterwards . i award this excellent film * * * 1/2 . don't miss this show ! * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . reviewed written on : may 6 , 1994 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
i was one of the few human beings had not seen mrs . doubtfire at the movies . why had i avoided it before ? i thought , incorrectly , that it was a slapstick comedy made up mainly of sight gags . i found mrs . doubtfire to be a gem of a movie that worked almost perfectly on two levels for me . first , it was a comedy in the spirit of , albeit not quite as good as , tootsie . i laughed so hard several times that i had trouble stopping . second , it is a serious and sad movie about the pains of a divorce - especially about the effects on the dad and on the kids . i found even his costume to have wonderful symbolism in it too . i hated the way they wrapped up the ending , but depending on your situation and your beliefs , you may love it . this movie is a tour de force for robin williams - probably one of his greatest roles ever . i have had mixed but mainly positive feelings about him in the past . you can feel his pain in this movie , and his humor is incredible . the rest of the actors and actresses were okay , but in a different league . mrs . doubtfire runs 2 : 07 , but i thought it was carefully edited ( raja gosnell ) and directed ( chris columbus ) and i would not want to cut out or change very much of it at all . it is rated pg-13 for the seriousness of its material . i strongly recommend this movie to everyone and rate it * * * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . reviewed written on : may 18 , 1994 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
the movie is of epic proportions , length and grandeur . mel gibson , in what i found to be his best role ever , plays the grown up wallace . gibson directs the movie as well . the story is full of fascinating history of which i knew little . i have a good english history background but was surprised at what little early scottish history i knew . the story itself is quite compelling , and the script is excellent . the political intrigue among the scottish nobles makes you wonder whose side they are on . i found myself thinking of gary cooper in the fountainhead and the similarity between his role and that of gibson's . actually , the movie most like braveheart is gettysburg for both had huge and realistic battle scenes with wave after wave of humans charging each other and dying . they are both about old scottish heroes , and in my book , braveheart wins hands down . finally , you may find yourself thinking of the judas story from the bible except here the movie has a plethora of judases . one example of the quality of the script is that the writer manages to introduce a very funny character without it seeming like merely a plot device , which of course it is . i laughed out loud many times . although there was little humor in this serious tale , there was just enough to keep me from ever tiring even though i had to stay seated for three hours . too often period pieces seem like merely exercises in style . i found queen margot to be one such movie . here the wonderful costumes and set decoration feel totally authentic but in a natural way . i felt like i was actually in the thirteenth century where people's faces were frequently dirty and in general personal hygiene was minimal . i have been to scotland many times and it is gorgeous . in a low key but quite impressive way , the cinematography makes one feel the beauty and the isolation of countryside . the music with the recurring and haunting melody of the lone scottish bagpipe sets a sad and yet serene tone and mood . braveheart runs a long , but well worth it , 2 : 52 . i would not want it shorten . it is rated r , but nc-17 would be more appropriate . it is the goriest movie i have ever seen and that too i would not change because it allows one to vicariously live through what actual battles in that period would be like . please be warned that you will see almost every part of the human body being chopped off or stabbed in one scene or another . imagine any physical horror , and there is probably a scene of it in braveheart . nevertheless , there was not one scene where i thought the violence was gratuitous . i would let older teenagers see the movie , but would be careful with impressionable younger ones . i give braveheart a strong recommendation and award it * * * 1/2 . don't miss it . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
seven is film that pushes the edge of the movie envelope . its artistic ancestors are probably silence of the lambs and pulp fiction , and yet seven stands alone as a totally unique cinematic experience . although a lot of the critics love it , there are many frightening and gross images that may have the squeamish heading for the exits before even the first scene is over . on the other hand , if you have a strong stomach and you liked either of seven's above putative relatives , there is a good chance you may love this show as much as i did . from the opening you know something unusual is unfolding in front of you . first , the initial credits are shot with flashing images , type going in and out of focus to strange sounding music , and cross hatch marks on the film like this is some ancient print . do not go complain to the poor guy working at the snack bar , this is what the film maker intended . you had better see this show on the big screen . its low contrast , black images will never transfer well to tv . the colors in it are mainly shades of grays so that any images with primary colors really stand out . at first i did not know what to make of the filming , but then i realized how well the technique fit and set the mood of the picture . in the end i decided the cinematography deserved an academy award nomination . it was that innovative and involving . so what is this show about you ask ? is it just another mood piece where the techniques are the show ? oh no , this has a well written script ( andrew kevin walker ) and a director ( david fincher ) who is in total control . you may or may not mind the gore , but you can certainly respect someone who can fashion a picture with such attention to detail and such careful planning . he is played to perfection in a small but excellent part by kevin spacey who is one of the best bad guys in the movies today . see consenting adults or the usual suspects for more examples of his villainy . the first sin we see is gluttony . you did not guess horrible enough . it does it in such fresh ways , that you do not mind you have seen this setup a hundred times before . much as a chess master may use a standard opening and yet craft an entirely unique game , the writer weaves a compelling story out of formula ingredients . here freeman gives another academy award caliber performance as a low key but very sure master detective . pitt , whom i rarely like , does the best piece of acting i have ever seen him do . so much about this movie is outstanding in so many ways . the music is dramatic and helps set the mood . i think the editing by richard francis-bruce deserves another award . the way he can use cuts from slow pieces to fast ones and then quick cuts in the fast ones gets the audience's adrenaline pumping . one minute we have a contemplative scene , and the next your heart is racing with the fast edits . the script has so many examples of fine writing a la pulp fiction that i would be happy to see an award here as well . i agree with the second part . " a show is only as good as its ending . suffice it to say that seven's ending is on par with the rest of the movie and is filled with many surprises , large and small . i was flabbergasted when i read that seven runs 2 : 07 . it feels like 1 : 30 at most since it is so well paced . it is incorrectly rated r for massive gore and violence . personally , i think the mpaa should be more generous with the nc-17 rating which is what i would give seven . it is not suitable for teenagers , but i recommend it highly to adults who like cop shows and who like films that are willing to be out on the fringes , and i award it * * * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . reviewed written on : october 1 , 1995 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
feast of july is a movie based on an h . e . bates novel . for those of us who have read his books or seen any of the wonderful masterpiece theater adaptations on tv ( " love for lydia " , " country matters " , etc . ) , we know right away that something special is about occur when we see bates name . his stories are quiet ones with much depth and heavy characterizations . they tear at your heart . the movie feast of july ranks among the best of the bates movies and mini-series . first time movie director christopher menaul ( who did the great " prime suspect i " on tv ) does a brilliant job of moving bates to the big screen without removing any of the small aspects that makes bates's works so special . it would have been a temptation to try to jazz up the script with more dialog or to direct the actors to be more lively , but he showed great control and confidence in his material . he knew that he had a strong cast , and he could rely on the story and on facial expressions and body language to tell much of the tale . bates teaches us all about the human spirit , and menaul trusted his audience not to get bored , but to pay attention and get wrapped up in an entrancing story . she is having an extremely realistic miscarriage . with a single image the director and some great acting have already captured our heart . i rarely want to cry three minutes into a show as i did then . although it was a novel , it feels like a short story since it has such simplicity and yet great intensity . even the little parts of the story are special . the sets appear to be extremely accurate recreations of the period . quite compelling . the cinematography by peter sova is incredible . where do i begin with so many examples ? let me cite just two . in the fog scenes , the characters move through the fog like sad black ghosts as only their outline shows . in the scene of the lighting of the gas lamps on the street at night and of the dinners lit only by oil lamps , the pictures are realistically dark and yet possess a warm glow as if it is a metaphor of the attempt for inner peace of all of the characters . all of the actors and actresses delivery terrific performances . it is hard to single out any since it is an ensemble piece of acting . i guess embeth davidtz is my favorite , but all were so good . with only a few lines , gemma jones steals most of the scenes she is in . the dialog as written by bates and as carefully and lovingly adapted for the screen by christopher neame , is sparse and yet carefully constructed for maximum effect . each of the characters is special in some way . finally , the ending of the movie is excellent and left me gripping the chair as the credits started to roll . it is rated r for sex and violence . it would be excellent for teenagers of all ages to see it . i highly recommend this heart wrenching tragedy to you , and i give it * * * 1/2 . with a little stronger middle , it could have gotten my top rating . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : october 31 , 1995 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
father of the bride ii is a surprisingly excellent and touching comedy . unlike the 1991 movie which is broadly written for maximum laughs , the sequel is an even better movie that relies for its charm on its poignancy although there are innumerable hilarious moments as well . father of the bride ii had me in tears twice . on the other hand , i rolled over in laughter so loud in one scene that i scared the woman in front of me . a very affecting and effective movie . the setup of father of the bride ii is a simple one . as matty puts it , " i'm 4' 6 " , i don't shave , i don't have a job , and i'm going to be an uncle . isn't there something weird about that ? " the sale of their home and its ramifications are both touching and extremely funny . the writers will really surprise you with what they do with this one . perhaps one of the reasons this movie works so well for me are all of the similarities with my own life . george is my age almost to the day . to be honest though , i have had no problems with harassment by ferraris . the movie is filled with touching scenes . it is filmed as a series of flashbacks starting at age 4 . the cinematography ( elliot davis ) and the editing ( stephen rotter ) are absolute perfection . kimberly williams does a wonderful job as a role model of what every parent hopes their children turn into - sweet , smart , good looking , happy , and successful . the twist in the story that makes it click is that george and nina find that they too are expecting a baby which pleases nina but scares george . it's the 90s . " , the movie deals straightforwardly and effectively with many serious subjects . the best part of the entire movie are the birthing scenes at the end . times of major emotion and uproarious laughter in the theater . he can deliver lines as well as facial expressions without speaking that alternatively have you in stitches one minute and ready to cry the next . a brilliant performance . the rest of the cast is equally strong . keaton , who can be too cutesy or quirky , is carefully directed and delivers her warmest performance since reds . martin short again plays franck egglehoffer , but in the sequel he is not so obnoxious . in this film , he does not go overboard as he so frequently does , and gives the only lovable and touching as well as comedic role i have ever seen him in . in a minor but well cast role we have jane adams as dr . megan eisenberg . father of the bride ii is a joy to behold . a life-affirming film whose almost last line is " life doesn't get much better than this . " amen . it is rated pg , but it is a totally non-offensive show that should have been rated g . there is no sex , nudity , violence , bad language , or smoking . you could take a kid of any age , but given the story , i suspect it will only interest kids over say 8 . i recommend the movie to you strongly , and i award it * * * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : december 8 , 1995 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
it is a remake of the 1952 movie of the same name by zoltan korda . this movie features james earl jones as an anglican priest by the name of stephen kumalo , and it is clearly the best performance of jones's long career of over eighty movies . cry the beloved country starts with sweeping vistas of great beauty filmed in luscious color thanks to the cinematography by paul gilpin . although i have never been to south africa , the terrain reminded me of the scottish highlands where i have visited . the beauty of south africa resonates perfectly with the richness of jones's voice in the narration . my people go there never to return . " the movie spends more time than most movies dealing with spirituality in general and the true meaning of christianity in particular . it is refreshing to see a movie where people of the cloth are taken seriously for a change . the marvelous script by ronald harwood and direction by darrell roodt weave a tale of great power and sadness but do it in an understated fashion that never manipulates the audience's emotions . nevertheless , there was many a tear shed in the theater i was at , and i could hear frequent sobbing . the ending is perfect , and i think hopeful . ah , the acting . everyone in the movie was quite good , but jones was head and shoulders above everyone else . a more moving and powerful performance i have not seen in a long time . if he does not get an academy award nomination for it , they ought to disband the academy as hopeless lost . the music by john barry is extremely moving without ever being overpowering . i love the costumes ( rui filipe ) especially the large brimmed hats that the priests wear . cry the beloved country runs a fast 1 : 49 thanks to crisp editing ( david heitner ) . the movie is rated pg-13 for a little violence , but there is no sex , nudity or bad language . i would have no trouble taking kids 10 and over . this is a subtle but wonderful film that i recommend to you strongly , and i give it * * * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : december 21 , 1995 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
although philadelphia could have been a better movie , more about this latter , i really liked it , especially for tom hank's extremely moving performance as someone dying of aids . there are many parts of the movie that i will remember for a long time , but most of all is the courtroom scene where tom hanks testifies in his own behalf . hanks's performance deserves an oscar , but many other parts of that scene were outstanding . his makeup throughout the movie is chillingly realistic especially how pale he looks at court . i hate cute camera angles , but the choice of having the camera tilted whenever it shows what hanks is seeing makes you feel sick too . overall , it really makes you think : there but for the grace of god go i . there are two other excellent parts of the show . another excellent scene is the costume ball . you can really see the love and the happiness even in times of trouble that this group of gay friends have . the script by ron nyswaner is outstanding as is the directing by jonathan demme . demme is one of my favorite directors . his long repertoire of wonderful movies include : silence of the lambs , married to the mob , swimming to cambodia , and my personal favorite something wild . i recommend you rent them all many times . the movie could and should have been even better . the homophobia was over done . he started off hating gay people and by the middle and end of the movie , it was unclear what he thought . some scenes were totally ridiculous . her script was so bad on the other hand , you kind of had to kind of feel sorry for her . she has a very limited range of acting abilities , but seems to be cast in widely differing roles . philadelphia runs 2 : 05 and given all of the material it covers , i don't think it could be made much shorter . it is rated pg-13 for its serious themes . i highly recommend this show to everyone over 12 and award it * * * 1/2 . now , go see the movie . the good parts are excellent , and the bad parts can be ignored . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : january 22 , 1994 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
i thought anthony hopkins gave an academy award winning performance and emma thompson's performance was not far behind . the other actors and actresses in the show were fine , but nothing special . to put my review in context , i saw howards end , where these two great stars last appeared together , and found it only mildly interesting . here , their every scene was compelling . i found the movie very peaceful and extremely serene . i am sure others will see the movie and think it depressing or get angry that stevens was unable to break the chains that bound him . i found it a fascinating portrait of a person who made a commitment in life and stuck to it without ( almost any ) question forever . i suspect many monks are not even this dedicated . it is rated pg and would be fine for anyone old enough for a movie about serious themes . overall , it is an absolute gem of a movie and an absolute must see in my book . i award it * * * 1/2 and almost gave it more . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : november 29 , 1993 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
eventually , gresham becomes seriously ill and the movie becomes a terms of endearment ii . there are so many things special about this movie it is hard to know where to begin so let me take a little bit different approach and list them in order with the best first : script many lines poignant , funny , or both . wish i could have written all them down . in one example , winger describes hopkins and her as " lapsed atheists " . it has an excellent ending . the script by william nicholson deserves to win an oscar . i believe this was taken from a play . if so , you should get the play and read it . use your yellow marker to highlight the memorable lines . make sure your marker has plenty of ink before you start . finally , not only was the script excellent , the story itself was a fascinating love story . direction richard attenborough had a clear sense of what he wanted to do . and did it . very moving . acting hopkins was absolutely wonderful . okay , the character had similarities to the one in remains of the day in how reserved he was , but these were different roles . he deserves an oscar nomination for shadowlands . winger played a harsh , honest , strong , complex and yet vulnerable character . her acting range is enormous . excellent performance also worthy of an oscar nomination . actually , the only fault i have with the movie was that winger had trouble staying with her accent . cinematography the cinematography by roger pratt was beautiful and yet not overdone . made you want to go to oxford without overpowering the story and turning it into a travelogue . shadowlands runs 2 : 11 , and i think the editor ( lesley walker ) made just the right choices . if it had been shorter , we might have missed some aspect of two intriguing lives . it is rated pg only for the seriousness of its themes . it would be a great show for anyone old enough to contemplate serious illness . i strongly recommend this to you and award it * * * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : february 7 , 1994 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
director ron howard is a master craftsman at taking the viewer into another profession - remember how you felt the terror of being a fireman in backdraft ? you and your colleagues have a half a day to get the front page story right and scoop your competition . the movie starts at a good clip , but by the end , you are on a roller coaster ride as the background investigative reporting just is not happening fast enough to get to the 8pm press run . by the end , your heart is racing . wonderful images as the building actually shakes every time the big presses run . although not technically realistic perhaps , it remains a perfect metaphor . at a surface level , the paper is a comedy . i laughed out loud constantly . the script is extremely funny and michael keaton , as the metro editor , delivers the lines as only he can . you feel like you are there and arguing with them . this story within the larger story was touching and had me crying some by the end . you see , i think the movie ultimately is not a comedy - although it is extremely funny . this is a first rate drama . it simultaneously made me want to work day and night for a newspaper like this to get out the daily big story while at the same time it made me want to take it easy and enjoy my family as the only thing in life that really matters . okay , it is not perfect . in real life , this could get you in big trouble . i did not buy that part of the plot . the scene by the presses works great in the movie but would never happen that way in the real world . but , this is a movie and a darn good one . if i just wanted to see real life , i would have gone to the mall . it is rated r , but i thought it should have been pg-13 . certainly everyone above the age of say 10 should love it . i give it * * * 1/2 and strongly recommend it to you . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : april 1 , 1994 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
short cuts is a dozen short stories all neatly woven together into a seamless whole . most of all , however , it is a robert altman film . let me be candid with you and confess that i have seen most of altman's works , and i generally rank them from so-bad-i-walked-out to watchable-with-some-good-parts . this movie blew me away , perhaps because i love documentaries so much ( e . g . , with the exception of the bad singer who sang terrible , cliched songs , every character was extremely interesting and different . it was a tribute to the script that you could even get to recognize much less care about this many characters in so short a time . i admit it did start a bit slow since it had a lot of people to introduce . the hospital scene with the very sick little boy was so real that i had to keep myself twice from praying for him ! the camerawork and editing was handled especially well - never choppy , yet it switched around a lot among the stories . they used the technique popularized in the movie slacker where the character in story a goes by the character in story b and the camera switches from a to b without changing momentum . also , most of the stories had a character that linked it to another . that the occupations were so varied was another reason it had a documentary feel . like most hollywood movies however they have no idea how many people smoke these days . 80% of the people smoked cigarettes in this movie whereas it is closer to 20% in the real world . also too much smoking of dope in the show as sort of a natural thing to do . one of the lines in the movie was " all they ever do in la is snort coke and shout . " short cuts runs 3 : 07 , but i would not have wanted them to cut it down at all . it is rated r for drug use , nudity , sex , etc . it would be okay for older teenagers if you go with them . i am still thinking about the show , give it * * * 1/2 , and recommend it to you highly . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : february 28 , 1994 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
i worried when six degrees of separation started because for a few brief moments i thought i had walked into a neal simon comedy , which i hate . the words per minute rate for the first part of the show is exceeded only by swimming to cambodia and maybe by my dinner with andre . the script by john guare deserves an award - witty and very bright . you don't want to cough and miss a word of it . the movie is based on a play which i believe has the same name . there are many memorable lines . my favorite has to do with what to give rich people and how simple it is . see the movie to find out . you never know when you may want to send bill gates a little something . best to be ready at a moment's notice . there are three award quality performances . the movie is a comedy in a way , but even more it is an evolving mystery . most of all , however , it is a character study and some fascinating characters they are . i am not giving any of the plot away - much better to be surprised . the direction by fred schepisi of the ensemble cast has them all in perfect rhythm . six degrees of separation was bursting with energy . the editing keep a good pacing and the show ran 1 : 51 . it is rated r for reasons which escape me . i think it would be fine for teenagers to see by themselves . it gets * * * 1/2 in my book and a strong recommendation to go see it . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : march 2 , 1994 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
you have already formed the wrong conclusions about this show . it is not one of those gritty , depressing , isn't life awful movies like ironweed or kids . nor is it a message movie filled with hopes of moral redemption like when a man loves a woman , but it certainly has a message . it also has two of the best acting performances of the year . he is not kidding , and he is very happy about it . do you understand ? " i am a person who is totally at ease with this . " words do not adequately describe the happiness they both have during this brief time they have together . think of this as a movie of what someone might like to do if they knew they were going to die in less than a month . this is not to say that ben and sera have it easy . mike figgis does the direction , script , and ( dreamy jazz ) music . the characters he creates are originals and ones that are totally believable . he uses this as a narrative glue to hold the picture together , and it works well . i had no idea what a great actress shue is . i have never been very fond of cage's acting . too often i have found it over the top and unrealistic . but here , i could not imagine any actor could have done a better job with this role . i hope they both get awards . they have many great scenes together , but i guess my favorite is the one of them by the pool in the motel in the desert . the cinematography by declan quinn is wonderful . the colors have a rich and yet surreal feel . shue's eye's and smile is what you see no matter how short her miniskirt . it would have been easy to have her role being secondary , but her acting is right on par with cage's . this is a scary show at times . you care deeply about these poor souls so when ben gets a bad case of the shakes , it makes you want to cry . it is correctly rated r for extreme alcohol abuse plus sex , nudity , and violence . i would not let teenagers go to this movie unless their parents go with them and discuss it afterwards . it is too easy for young minds to misconstrue the isn't drinking fun subtext . this is an anti-alcoholism movie , but it takes maturity to realize it properly . i strongly recommend this marvelous picture and amazing acting , and i give it * * * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : january 15 , 1996 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
dead man walking is a carefully crafted filmed by writer , director , and co-producer tim robbins . more on how successful the film is at that later in the review . this show is much more than a message movie , and it contains some incredible performances . whether your feelings on the death penalty are strong one way or another or even if you simply don't have an opinion , this film will move you and challenge you to think about your beliefs and values . susan sarandon plays sister helen and getting to know her through saradon's academy award quality performance makes your time at the movies special . the many other marvelous aspects to the film enhance your movie going experience even more . we got away , but even today i am frighten when i think about what could have happened . certainly for me , this movie rang true , and it was easy to identify with the victims . as a parent , it was also even to identify with the parents in the movie . chilling real . in this and every scene sarandon is nothing short of incredible . she manages to be reserved , but show her emotion with her expressions and her soft but effective speech . other actresses and other directors would have overdone the nun's role . here her outward uneasiness and trepidation is conquered by her inner courage . a tour de force acting performance by sarandon . penn is terrific as a prisoner . the audience is quickly convinced that this guy did it . on one level the movie is about whether poncelet will get his execution postponed and whether he really did it or not . most of the film however reminded me more of my dinner with andre than any other film . the director sets a slow and deliberate pace where there are a lot of natural pauses in the conversations . in a mediocre movie , this technique is the kiss of death as it rapidly gives rise to boredom , but here it allows the audience to contemplate the meaning of the excellent script . the sound effects editing of the movie is unusual . there is little ambient noise in most scenes causing the dialog to be accentuated much as a room with only a single picture focuses the viewer attention on it . the movie shows the nuns as real people who are not afraid to laugh , and the script has several quite natural jokes . i got audited the next year . i don't think i'll give you a ticket . " the actors and actresses playing the victim's families ( raymond j . barry , r . lee ermey , etc . ) are some of the strongest minor characters i have seen in a long time . on the other hand , i still think the script and most of the movie is so sympathetic to the killer that is a flawed attempt at evenhandedness . there was major weeping in my audience . i did not find robert prosky's role as lawyer hilton barber very effective . he gave his usual performance unchanged from many other movies he has been in . clearly the weakest character of the lot . the script is brilliant . there so many examples that is hard to know where to start . death is looking down your neck , and you're playing your little male come on games . " if i'd known this , i'd of told her i loved her . " plenty of time to read my bible and look for a loophole . " the cinematography ( roger deakins ) is slow , deliberate , and intimate just like the script . watch especially how the camera moves during the naturally lit scenes in the victims' houses . there is little use of music ( david robbins ) , but what there is has a wonderful reverential feel . i had two guys sitting behind me talking some . when i realized they looked like the death row inmates in the movie , i decided i would let them talk without interruption . i do have some criticisms of the movie . first , it is too sympathetic to the killer . second , the black ghetto was made to seem like too much fun . i have been to ghettos before , and robbin's vision is not realistic . i think in those circumstances , he would have held his tongue . dead man walking runs an absorbing but slow and deliberately paced 2 : 02 . i would not have changed the pacing at all , and i hope to see the editor win lots of awards . it is a realistic show , but should be fine for teenagers interested in serious material . i strongly recommend this film to you , and i give it * * * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
it is a sad and melancholic film full of great dramatic music ( juergen knieper ) filled with violins that added immensely to the intensity of the emotions . refreshing to see religion as a force for good albeit her attempts were all total failures . lots of misty eyes in the audience . the director and the cinematographer ( franz rath ) knew just how to handle it in a simple and controlled fashion . the acting by the four actors playing the two leads is phenomenal as is the direction . i was very moved by this picture . it forms wonderful images in your subconscious that stay with you . this is a movie about love kept . although it has many a tragic scene , the ultimate message made me feel like i had just heard beethoven's ode to joy being sung - very uplifting . the fine script ( felice laudadio , peter schneider , margarethe von trotta ) develops what could have easily been a complex and long movie into an accessible and standard length film . the characters are all ones that the audience cares about , and by the end , dry eyes are to come by . and yet the script never manipulates the audience , rather it approaches the story in a remarkable low key fashion . the east is shown to be full of orwellian logic . so there too was a happy ending . the promise reminded me somewhat of the unbearable lightness of being which is certainly a compliment , but the promise is a unique show thanks to the script and the artful direction of margarethe von trotta . the casting is excellent . konrad was not quite as close , but very similar . in an american production , we would have spent a ton of money and had the actors spend hours every day getting made to look older through makeup . i liked von trotta's different actors approach . the promise runs just 1 : 59 but manages to cover thirty years with perfect pacing . you will never be bored nor will you feel cheated that they are trying to cram too much stuff in . the film is in german with easy to follow english subtitles , and it is rated r . although it does have brief nudity and a little sex , i can not remember any violence . it would be fine for absolutely any teenager . i strongly recommend this film to you . if you are at all interested in love or history , you must see this film . it will touch your heart as it did mine . finally , i award it * * * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : january 31 , 1996 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
for someone who is a strict traditionalist when it comes to shakespeare , and to opera too for that matter , i was amazed at how much i was enthralled by ian mckellen's vision of richard iii as a world war ii british fascist . this is a well acted production where the images are even more impressive than the acting . usually when critics say the images are the best part of a movie , they are reviewing a mediocre show where the visuals are its redeeming feature . here they enhance an already outstanding production . as an aside , the theater where i saw the film had an overscan problem and the opening title clearly proclaimed the movie to be richard ii so i thought for a second i was going to see a prequel . after hating director oliver parker's recent and dreary rendition of othello , it was refreshing to see director richard loncraine breath such tremendous life-force into richard iii . no since the even better kenneth branagh's henry v and franco zeffirelli's romeo and juliet , have i enjoyed shakespeare so much . the film is based on shakespeare's play , but i believe many of the lines were either rearranged or abbreviated . i read that ian mckellen spent several years trying to sell various hollywood studios on the making of this film , but when the studios read the script , they kept saying that they hoped he made it , but they were not going to be the ones to fiance anything that bizarre . whether there is a big enough audience for a film like this to turn a profit is another question of course . in this speech and most others in the movie , it is pronounced and given nuances fresh and not found in most actors' shakespearean repertoire . the speech actually continues as nature calls , and richard leaves to use the urinal . in most movies i find contrivances like soliloquies in the bathroom to be silly at best , but mckellen's strength of acting manages to pull it off effectively . this is a fascinating and true story that averages a murder every five minutes , and thanks to great editing by paul green , the movie flies along . as richard says , " plots have i laid . " as the words moved fast and furiously , i realized why shakespeare is so unapproachable to a mass audience , it requires attention . unlike the sound bites of political campaigns or mtv , all thoughts are not delivered in short sentences full of monosyllabic words designed to let the brain stay on autopilot . i will not insult your intelligence by attempting a condensed version of the story here . instead i will concentrate on reviewing the film itself . the cast is full of good actors and actresses who are coached by the director to give some of their very best performances even though their roles may be quite minor . robert downey jr . , for example , plays rivers and has less than a dozen lines , but delivers them to great effect . adrian dunbar plays tyrell as a chilling man who has almost as few scruples as richard . jim broadbent has a larger ( pun intended ) role as buckingham , playing him as the herman goering of the picture . richard smiles deviously and replies with a sweet voice , " you have a daughter . " he quickly retorts in a melodious voice , " yes , if the devil tempt you to do good . " a chilling performance , but a bit hard to watch . now who else have i forgotten in this ensemble cast ? there is not a bad acting job in the movie . the best acting , and one worth many awards , is that of ian mckellen . in case you are curious , the " a horse , a horse , my kingdom for a horse " speech is delivered in a broken down jeep . the best part of the entire movie are the sets by tony burrough . the wide variety of costumes ( shuna harwood ) range from army uniforms reminiscent of the nazis to lush clothing for teas full of cream colors for the men and primary colors for the women . the cinematography ( peter biziou ) of hazy and shiny blues and greens with strong flesh tones adds a feeling of death and conniving around every corner . the last scene with the loud al jolson music is , well , a hoot . it is rated r for tastefully done violence , a little sex , very brief nudity , and one hard drug usage scene . i am sorry to say that it has massive smoking for no purpose . this show would be fine for teenagers , and i would strongly encourage them and anyone with an attention span longer than 15 seconds to see this film . it speaks to our time and every time . i gladly give the movie * * * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
director and writer kenneth branagh's a midwinter's tale ( called in the bleak midwinter in britain ) is a wonderful celebration of the pure joy of acting . it is full of exuberant energy and literally bursts at the seams with happiness . it is a comedy that kept a smile on my face from start to finish . since one of my least favorite movie genres is comedy especially british comedy as this one is , i was really surprised at how much i thoroughly enjoyed this film . my only problem was that i had to make myself stopping laughing out loud sometimes so that i would not miss any of the excellent dialog , and this was sometime extremely difficult . he auditions actors and actresses for the play , and these auditions are perhaps the best part of the movie . hamlet is me . hamlet is the desk . hamlet is the air . hamlet is my grandmother . " the best part of the film other than the script and the directing is michael maloney's acting . eventually they will become a team and more than that a family , and it is this considerable camaraderie that gives the audience such a warm feeling of joy . i nearly fell over in my seat when she delivered that line . branagh creates joe as a director with whom the audience easily empathizes . you want such an incredibly energetic , albeit naive , guy to succeed no matter how small the odds . he tells her , " if i forget my lines in shakespeare , i always say , 'crouch we here a while' and wait . " she lets molly call her pher , which molly says she appreciates but that pher is even harder to say than fadge . fadge is a great quirky little character who keeps the cast guessing as to what the set will look like . it is major funny . the cast in the show is great from top to bottom . i can only scratch the surface with this review . the movie is filmed in a low contrast and a little hazy black and white by roger lanser . i thought this look worked very well with the material . a midwinter's tale flies by at 1 : 39 thanks to crisp editing by neil farrell . it is incorrectly rated r for a tiny bit of bad language . there is no sex , nudity , or violence of any kind . i would class the film as a mild pg-13 and would have no trouble taking a kid of any age who was genuinely interested in the theater to it . this is an energetic , funny , but not slapstick comedy . it makes you feel good to be alive and reminds you what is special about the acting profession . i recommend it to everyone highly and award it * * * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
on a black comedy scale , this show is much darker than the classic harold and maude . two minutes into the film with the eclectic sets ( maria djurkovic ) plus the wide eyed expressions on graham's face , and you know this show is going to be great . the film is a mixture of macabre and great comedy . poison makes you vomit , and all the vomiting scenes in the show are too realistic for my taste . i'm going to scrub you till you are raw . " he declares , " i had decided the direction my scientific career was to take and there could be no turning back . " this section of the movie is as fascinating as that of the family . the movie ends with yet another section even more involving . although there is an excellent supporting cast , i think the performance by hugh o'conor is outstanding and outshines all the others . he can do more with his eyes that most actors can do in ten pages of dialog . the film has a strong presence , and moves with an energy and fluidity that is a marvel to watch . the cinematographic images by hubert taczanowski added to the strangeness of the experience . the lighting has faces with deep shadow on one side and the harsh incandescent glow of cheap bulbs on the other . one time trumpets will wail and the next time chimes will ring . the instruments change but the strange rhythms keep flowing . this is consistent with a movie that has a highly developed mood . the show is a cornucopia of effective cinematic elements . a tour de force and a fascinating story . the young poisoner's handbook runs a quick 1 : 39 thanks to fast paced editing by anne sopel . it is not rated , but would probably get an r . it has a little bad language , no sex , nudity only in pictures , but some scenes are quite horrific and can be hard to watch . this show should be fine for most teenagers , although i would , of course , hope they do not plan to make their own handbooks after seeing the film . if you like black comedies , i strongly recommend this one to you and give it * * * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
so , is your adrenaline a little low ? since steven seagal is on the marquee , you figure , hey , this has got to be another steven seagal action film , right ? steven seagal has basically a cameo role and disappears early on , never to be seen again . moreover , you even guessed the wrong genre ; this is a thriller . although there is action , most of the movie's time and tension is spent in mental anguish with lots of sweaty brows as the time for disaster approaches . right then and there , the whole audience knows the ending of the show , but it doesn't matter because editor turned director stuart baird is so good at keeping the tension mounting . platt does all nerds proud and the classic little straw he sucks on turns out to be one of the heroes of the show . i will not cover what happens next , but suffice it to say that your heart may try to pound out of your chest as mine did . i even found my body shaking some on the defusing the bomb scenes . beside what i believe is one of the best performances ever by russell , many others are great too . halle barry plays a brave and resourceful airline stewardess . the only weak character in the show is an ambitious senator ( j . this character happens to be on board the plane , but i wish he hadn't been . you could be the one to negotiate with the terrorists . " walsh's performance is extremely weak , and the movie would have been more focused without his character . the show works because of the tension , but there is one technical aspect deserving of special mention , the cinematography by alex thomson . the first time we witness the terrorists in action , they are shown in black and white slow motion sequences that slowly gain color before dissolving into the next black and white sequence . see the show at your local monster screen house because the images of the stealth fighter coming right at you in the hazy yellow and red glow of early morning are quite impressive as is the sound . the whole linkup sequence is another marvel to behold . finally , although the show does not try to overwhelm its viewers with technology , i was fascinated by the way the soldiers look through cameras with small flexible tubing to see what is going in the main cabin . the script by jim and john thomas sticks to the suspense to keep the show going . other writers would have gone for a lot more laughs . they do use humor , but sparingly . upon boarding the 747 , one of the soldiers says , " i hope they have a good movie on this flight . " executive decision , by the way , is one film i guarantee you , you will never see on an airplane . the movie ends with frank sinatra singing , " it's nice to go traveling , but oh so much nicer to come home . " by that time , my adrenaline was pumping so fast , i could have flown home without use of a plane . since this is about a presidential decision , whom do you think they cast in the role of the president ? finally , every show with bad guys has to have them be of some nationality or religious conviction . although most american shows with bad guys , have just plain old americans as the evil characters , i have seen the villains be colombians , italians , fundamentalist christains , and just about everyone imaginable . in this movie they are islamic . i wonder if in the future , i will be pamphleted by colombians , italians , fundamentalist christains , etc . ? i should point out that the number two in command complains at one point to david suchet about the destruction of washington that , " this has nothing to do with islam . " executive decision runs 2 : 15 , but it feels like a much shorter show . i would advise going to the bathroom before entering the theater . you do not want to miss a second of the suspense . the film is rated r . this is a soft r that comes from a little bad language and several people killed , but without a lot of blood or gore , more like an old fashion western . there is no sex or nudity . the movie would be fine for any teenager . i loved this show , and i think you will too so i recommend it highly and give it * * * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
in my humble opinion , documentaries are the highest of the cinematic art form . the best documentaries can let us see worlds we have never seen before or give us fresh insights into places with which we naively think we already are familiar . from the famous documentaries like triumph of the will and hoop dreams to the spectrum of lessor known but nevertheless fascinating ones like anne frank remembered , frosh : nine months in a freshman dorm and theremin : an electronic odyssey , we learn more from them than most fictional movies . to this great tradition is added director robert epstein and jeffrey friedman's the celluloid closet which looks at the depiction of gays and lesbians in the movies from the silent films to the today's pictures . although the film will clearly appeal to homosexuals and to film buffs , i believe that anyone seeing this documentary will find it an absolutely engrossing and fascinating movie . i believe that after seeing the celluloid closet , i now have a fresh perspective on the cinema and will never see films in quite the same way again . this movie helps you in reading the subtext of the movies better than any i have ever seen . as the movie starts , narrator lily tomlin tells us that , " hollywood , that great maker of myths , taught straight people what to think about gays and gay people what to think about themselves . " the format of the movie , beautifully edited by jeffrey friedman and arnold glassman , is to intersperse interviews with mainly gay people in the film industry with substantial length clips of movies to illustrate their points . actor and writer harvey fierstein said , " the hunger i felt as a kid looking for gay images was not to be alone . " although the documentary skips around a little bit , it mainly sticks to a chronological line . during this period , there were films with more honest and open depiction of homosexuality particularly those of marlene dietrich . with the advent of the legend of decency formed by the catholic church in 1934 , the movie industry agreed to a strict code where many activities were absolutely forbidden , and the censor had control over even the small parts of the script otherwise it would not get the seal of approval and without it no theater owner would dare show the film nor any studio dare make it . after this time , gay characters continued to be in films , but they were much subtler . also , during the 30s , gays were almost always shown as villains . the documentary shows clip after clip of movies with characters that were clearly gay like peter loire in the maltese falcon , but whom were not acknowledged as being so . they said the censors were not " rocket scientist " and so writers got a lot of pictures past them with gay characters , and the censors were never the wiser . some of the clips you could disagree with , but clearly most of the characters they claim to be gay or lesbian are . they showed the homosexual relationships in ben-hur and said that the writer never told charlton heston about it , or he would have come unglued . you're not bad looking . . . you've never had a man . that's your problem . " one of best interviewees is screenwriter susie bright . in the 80s films like making love began to show homosexuality in new open , honest , and explicit ways . by the 90s , the climate became much more open , nevertheless , as tom hanks says , " there is a constant desire on the part of the studios to make characters likable . " the movie ends with k . the celluloid closet runs a beautifully paced 1 : 42 . it is rated r for some nudity and sex scenes . personally , i think it would be fine for any teenager that is interested enough to see the picture . i think the film is great and recommend it strongly . i firmly believe i will be a better viewer and critic after being fortunate enough to have seen this documentary . the celluloid closet easily gets * * * 1/2 in my book . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
untamed heart ( 1993 ) is a wonderful and truly magical film . it has two extremely strong and compelling performances by the leads , and is a film that makes you realize the joy of the human existence and especially the rapture of love . unless your taste run to believing the scrooge's of life , i find it hard to believe that you will not be as charmed by this show as was i . christian slater plays adam in the best piece of acting is his career . it is so imaginative and risk taking that i wish he had at least gotten an academy award nomination for it . it is a brilliant piece of acting . adam is someone who is either very shy , has a low iq , or both . he relates his story in such a slow and serious way that you begin to think , well maybe . their love making ranks among the slowest , sweetest , and most natural i have ever seen on the screen . the romance is more than just sex . it includes many magical gifts like making christmas trees that appear overnight in the caroline's bedroom . the direction by tony bill and the script by tom sierchio floats on a cloud . the movie works in all dimensions , but the scenes between adam and caroline are pure bliss . the cinematography by jost vacano and the sets by steven jordan do a wonderful job of providing reverence to lower class housing , jobs , and existence . other than watching the great and natural charisma between the two leads , the delight in the show is the little surprises in the plot , and there are many . the plot has several tragedies in it , and some may object that it is too manipulative , but , i thought every moment of it worked , right down to the ending . untamed heart breezes through at only 1 : 38 thanks to beautiful and seamless editing by mia goldman . the film is rated pg-13 for violence , preliminary sex , and brief nudity . since the little violence the film has is realistic and a bit frightening , i would say the film would be fine for any kid over say 10 . i loved this movie and think you will too so i give it a strong recommendation and award it * * * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
now with a cast this talented and material this strong , rehashing is not necessarily bad . the character creations in all the star wars series are delightfully imaginative . jabba and his minions are testaments to the grotesque and the obese . after being grossed out by jabba's huge rolls of jelly like fat , i suspect a large number of people must have run out of the theater to hit the pay phones to call 1-800-outfat or some such number . a better advertisement for fat clinics i have not seen . by the way , i thought one of jabba's entourage was at least a kissing cousin to the gargoyles that populate the movie gremlins . one thing remains . one things remains , vader . i love the flowery language the writers ( lawrence kasdan and george lucas ) give yoda . he appears in a vision telling luke , " you will find that many of the truths we cling to depend upon your point of view . " this is a show of secrets revealed , but you will not find them out here . see the movie . that they could control the bikes while traveling at the high speed they are going makes no sense , but hey , this is science fiction afterall . they were a hit at the time , but i am surprised there wasn't at even a bigger marketing tie in with them . looked like great toys for the age 2-9 set to me . the acting in the movie was good . hamill , whom i found to be a big disappointment in the last episode , has more energy and does his part less on autopilot in this one . his performance here still pales in significance to his work in star wars , which is the only film he has ever been great in . although the show was excellent , there were several letdowns for me . first and foremost , i missed the incredible humor from the first two . there are laughs in return of the jedi , but overall the writers and the director ( richard marquand ) approach the show too reverentially . second , i missed the romantic angle . there was some aspects of it in this episode , but not much . the film is correctly rated pg and the scariest part is the monsters which i suspect will be more than most kids under 5 or 6 can handle . there is no sex , nudity or profanity i can remember , but the star wars groupies will undoubtedly send me one or two minor cuss words i missed . most of them pointed out after my review of the empire strikes back that mark hamill had been in a car accident with some sure that it was before the movie and others equally sure it was after . since my favorite was star wars , i asked jeffrey which one of the three he liked best , and he said this one , but would refused to say why . not a reason i would have guessed ! i give the movie * * * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
the eye opening documentary the gate of heavenly peace by directors richard gordon and carma hinton has the now famous 1989 tiananmen square tragedy as its central theme , but actually the movie paints evil across a much wider canvas covering the entire communist chinese era . even if you naively believe that you have kept up with twentieth century chinese history , i suspect that watching this movie you will be like me and find yourself learning one fascinating incident after another so that you soon lose count . let me skip to the recommendation of this review and say that this is one of those films that not only will people enjoy , but everyone should see it . keep an eye out for it . this film is about courage , not cowboy style bravado , but strong , dedicated and steadfast determination to insist on democracy and nothing less than democracy . the documentary has a linear structure with flashbacks used to put events in the proper historical perspective . the old newsreel and other film footage are mesmerizing . the film makes liberal but effect use of talking heads . the directors managed to locate a dozen or so of the key instigators of the chinese democracy movement , and each of them prove both articulate and thought-provoking . the whole tiananmen square episode is shown to be a tragedy of shakespearean proportions . not only was protest acceptable from an historical perspective , it was also legal since their constitution specifically gives people the right of freedom of speech . the government churned out movies , ballets , and many other propaganda devices to make this so . i am not going to tell any more of what happens since the film works as a mystery as well as a documentary . i confidently predict you will be constantly surprised . to make the film more accessible , it has no subtitles . the narration , based on the script by geremie barme and john crowley , is effective and moving without ever being manipulative . they use the story and the interviews to drive the energy of the picture . the careful and seamless editing by david carnochan and charles phied churchill is beautifully done . the gate of heavenly peace runs 3 : 00 , and as great as it is , it would have been better and more focused at about a half hour less . movies must be careful when they approach the three hour mark . better for the show to be widely seen by large numbers of people who know little of the incident than be longer and end up only increasing the knowledge of the already knowledgeable on the subject . the film is unrated , but would probably be pg-13 . although there are some violent scenes , i am strongly recommending the film to anyone old enough to care at all about the subject . finally , i give it * * * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : may 4 , 1996 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
although i have not been a jarmusch fan before this picture , i am now . dead man features a great performance by the ever enthralling johnny depp ( ed wood , don juan demarco and edward scissorhands ) , impressive and moving black and white cinematography by robby mueller ( to live and die in la and repo man ) , and a score by neil young so strong that it dominates , but never overpowers the picture . although the show is quirky enough not to be everyone's cup of tea , i was blown away by it . the fireman prophetically advises him , " i wouldn't trust no words written on no piece of paper . " the coal dust make-up ( neal martz ) on the fireman gives him a realistic but macabre appearance . the acting in the show is sharp and taut . there are two outstanding performances by depp and farmer . depp can convey more through just expressions than most loquacious actors can with volumes of words . in a film whose strength lies in its bold imagery , the casting of depp as the lead is brilliant . farmer plays an assertive , fresh mouthed indian with a natural gift for humor . i loved farmer just as much as depp in the picture . the script by jim jarmusch is smart and biting . the director's pacing and the relaxed and smooth editing by jay rabinowitz make for a dreamy show . most scenes have dramatic neil young electric guitar music , cinematography with sharp black and whites , but with highly gradational grays , and long blank places between words . this is a director who knows the value of a character's silence and how to use it to maximum effect . i do not remember a movie where the music worked better or where it was more central to the success of the film . i am not a neil young fan either , but i was mesmerized by his work here . as the show was drawing to a close , i began to wonder how they would end it . to me the ending is perfect , and it provides a beautiful symmetry to the beginning . when the show was over and the house lights went up , i felt privileged to have seen a incredible piece of cinematic art . totally unique . it is rated r for some sex , brief nudity , and some very violent scenes like the one where they slice someone's skin and blood spurts out . i think it would be fine for any mature teenager . for some movies like anne frank remembered and the joy luck club , a critic can recommend it knowing that almost everyone will love it , where in other films like dead man , it is not so clear . nevertheless i recommend this show to you strongly if you are the last bit adventuresome in your cinematic tastes , and i award it * * * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : may 4 , 1996 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
the last supper is a no holds bared satire and political comedy about the far left and the far right . it manages to be both thought provoking as well being chock full of dark humor . think seriously about your answer to that question before reading the rest of the review as it may color how you view the plausibility of the film's plot . although the dinner table dialog by writer dan rosen , is too outlandish to be credible , taken as satire , it is great . they'll understand . " in a strong and beautifully controlled performance by courtney vance as luke , he ridicules this idea with , " sure they would . you'll probably just get a ticket . " the script is full of this intelligent and biting humor . all we do is buy animal-friendly mascara . " they all figure this will be a success since as paulie puts it , " look we're liberals . we do the right thing . " although i am a card carrying conservative , i found the satire hilarious . okay , so i lied , i don't have a card , but i am a dedicated conservative . this is the type of movie that people on all ends of the political spectrum should be able to enjoy , laugh at , and generally make them think . these included a male chauvinist , an anti-ecologist ( " i'm not anti-earth ; i'm pro-earthling . kind of hard to care about the earth if you don't have a house to live in . " ) , finally , the central figure in the show turns out to be none other than the rush limbaugh figure . the ending of the film is imaginative as the rest of the script . the editing by luis colina yields a film that moves quickly but not so fast it fells like sound bites which would be an easy way to overedit the film . the cinematography by paul cameron is very effective in its use of the wide angle lens . the dramatic thunderstorms which bracket the shows beginning and ending are ominous and efficacious . although my favorite is courtney vance , all of the acting is brilliant . nevertheless , all of the conservatives , although most have limited roles , are good too . i think most of the credit however should go to the director stacy title . an exceptional piece of work . it is rated r . there is some sex , not overdone violence , pot smoking , a little bad language , but no nudity . this show would be fine for any teenager . with a strong cast , excellent direction and a funny script that never pulls its punches , i recommend this show highly and give it * * * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : may 13 , 1996 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
first , let me be clear . director mike figgis's mr . jones ( 1993 ) , staring richard gere as mr . jones , is an extremely hard show to watch . think of it as paying $7 for a virtual reality game where you too can be a manic depressive and for two solid hours no less ! second , the ending is awful . actually , for this bit of ridiculousness , i do thank them somewhat . without it , the show was so intense it might have been totally unbearable . finally , the title is terrible . mr . jones sounds like a love story or a light comedy . now , why in my right mind ( no pun intended ) , would i recommend this show and give it a high rating ( * * * 1/2 ) ? first , gere performance , especially in his manic states , was pure academy award winning stuff . second , it forces you , albeit very painfully , to come to grips with what depression is and even more so what manic depression is . every time gere got into his manic state , you felt like you had just popped a bottle of speed . this is one of those show you think about again and again for years . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : october 28 , 1993 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
i highly recommend this wonderful film that i saw recently at the press screening . sayles's pictures are always bursting with humanity . the scripts are intelligent and his films are rich with talented actors . he manages to find excellent although usually lessor known actors to play even the most minor roles . every member of the cast delivers a heartfelt performance . these groups are even more fragmented into some that are soldiers and others that are illegal aliens . they say " he is all hat and no cattle . " since charley has never been heard of in 40 years and since the skull is about that old , the narrative drive in the movie surrounds whether there could have been foul play back then . this mystery works really well , but it is not the best part of the picture nor the centerpiece . all of the acting by all of the wonderful characters we get to meet is the reason to see the film . the best performance is the reserved and lonely one by chris cooper as sam . as a one-dimensional bad guy , kris kristofferson is perfect . his philosophy is " it's not like there's a line between the good people and the bad people . it is not like you're one or the other . " sayles's script is naturally funny in a low key fashion . it is also full of poignancy . so many scenes are special , but two of my favorites are a slow dancing scene that is lovingly photographed by stuart dryburgh , and the other is of the abandoned drive-in theater where sam and pilar used to make out . as a native texan , i liked the way the accents were realistic . too often filmmakers overdo southern accents . certainly some locals have thick accents , but not all . perhaps my favorite technical aspect of the film is the editing , also by sayles . many scenes would move 40 years with just a pan and without any cuts . she again demonstrates her wide range of acting talent . lone star runs a full 2 : 15 , but given the time it spends delving into the lives of so many people and many racial communities , this feels short if anything . the film is rated r . there is a little sex , no nudity , and a little violence . i thought it should have been pg-13 . perhaps they used the f word a few times , and i missed it . at any rate , i think it would be fine for kids 10 and up . i strongly recommend this wonderful , insightful , and heartwarming film to you and award it * * * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
for me one of these is eraser . i went to it expecting an enjoyable schwarzenegger action flick , but nothing special . once safely ensconced in my seat i was blown away by the movie . thanks to an excellent script by tony puryear and walon green , the movie is the funniest action picture this year . director chuck russell ( the mask ) is able to sustain a high energy pace that keeps the action moving and the audience's adrenaline pumping . too bad he was not the director of the too often tedious mission : impossible . actually there is a center part of eraser that repeats part of mission : impossible , but with much more energetic timing . first , a suggestion . go see this movie while it is still at the biggest screen with the most powerful subwoofers . the explosions and the gun fire , especially the electromagnetic guns , produce a sound that has the theater rocking . second , the setup for the plot is the usual implausible one of the military , the intelligence community , the mafia , big business , et . al . ignore this conspiracy ridiculousness . the slight mystery is which guys are the good ones and which the bad . the ending of eraser is great . moreover , as soon as you think it is over , it gets better and better . the script is intelligent and at the same time so funny in parts that i was constantly rolling with laugher . i prefer rich . " the acting is quite good . arnold is in fine form and hilarious - as good as in true lies , which i loved . caan is given a one dimensional character but manages to make him interesting . coburn barely has a part - not enough to even comment on . the best acting in the show is by vanessa williams . in the first scene she is so tense , you feel like you are going to have a heart attack . all of this notwithstanding , this is arnold's picture , and he is great - strong and funny . there are many terrific minor actors in the show , but the best are the ones from the local mob-cum-union . they give invaluable help to kruger and wonderful mirth to the audience . the stunts are spectacular throughout , but my favorites are the scene when cullen's house is attacked and the scene on the airplane . the script too is highly imaginative from the guns used to the solutions kruger comes up with on the airplane . finally , the film conclusively answers the question , what do you say when you murder an alligator . eraser runs a fast 1 : 45 thanks to excellent editing by michael tronick . the film is rated r . there is no sex or nudity , and the language is mild . since this is an action flick , there is violence with lots of people being killed and some blood , but overall , it is much less gory than typical r rated action films - more like a shoot-'em-up western . it is fine for teenagers , but not too much younger . i saw some dads taking their 8-10 year olds into the film which i think is too immature an age for this much violence . i give the film a strong recommendation . you will like the actions and the stunts and will probably be rolling over with laughter too . i give the film * * * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
i loved this show , thought it was fantastic and gave it * * * 1/2 . i would recommend it to anybody who likes movies with real and vibrant people in them . what a great show . now , all of that having been said , i would like to spend the rest of this review discussing one aspect of the film . did anyone else notice how men were portrayed in this movie ? men in this movie came in basically two types with few exceptions . either they were horrible brutes , or they were like wallpaper . either they were mean and cruel , or they had almost no lines at all . it was more than just they tried , and rightly so , to emphasize the women . in such a wonderful show why such stereotypes of men ? given this show was about eight women who were either all married or in relationships , i would have hoped for a little more realistic/sympathetic/hopeful image of men . i do not know why it was done , but it bothered me . still , my strong recommendation stands , but if i could have edited it just a bit . . . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : november 1 , 1993 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
since it is just slightly less than 101 days until the opening of the live action remake ( with glenn close , jeff daniels , joan plowright and joely richardson ) of disney's 1961 classic one hundred and one dalmatians , we decided to watch the original cartoon version . what fun it is . as one of many delightful little aspects of the film , notice how the owners and their dogs look so much alike . she is a classic cartoon figure of a villain - very exaggerated , but effective . she is as thin as a rail , but wears an extra thick fur coat . the drawing for the picture is a blend of the real and the romantic . indoor scenes are highly detailed , but the outdoor scenes have the look of a kid's storybook with the windows and doors lit up . what is special about the movie are the small scenes . my favorite has all of the pups watching a black and white tv show about a cowboy and a dog . the pups are fascinated by it much as a human child would be . the most precious part is the plethora of little wagging tails . there is another delightful scene where the bad guys and the pups watch sunday's episode of " what's my crime ? " perhaps those of you too young to remember " what's my line ? " will not be quite so enchanted by it as i was , but it is a cute scene . one hundred and one dalmatians is not great drama , but it is a children's story well told . it should delight people of all ages . >from start to finish it is a very sweet show . it is rated g , and there is nothing to offend or scare anyone of any age - a great piece of family entertainment . jeffrey ( age 7 ) loved it as did i . i recommend it to you strongly and give the picture * * * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : august 29 , 1996 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
highly acclaimed writer and director mike leigh's ( life is sweet and naked ) latest film is secrets & lies . the picture won the palme d'or at this year's cannes film festival , and the lead actress , brenda blethyn , got the best actress award for her work in the film . the picture is an incredible character study , that goes from morose to life affirming . it is a complex picture that is both tragic and comedic . most of all , it is a highly involving and rewarding film for the audience . it is also a tale of love and caring and deep longings , and of the awesome relentlessness of the passage of time . " as the show started , i was not sure if i was going to like it or not . the lead actress , brenda blethyn ( from a river runs through it ) as middle-aged cynthia , seemed about to give one of those performances like crissy rock's in ladybird , ladybird where the character is so unlikable that watching the show becomes a challenge . for the record , i loved crissy rock and ladybird , ladybird even if it is hard to stomach . in secrets & lies , this did not turn out to be the case , and the audience develops both an empathy and a love for cynthia . like a woody allen film , there is an hilarious sequence where we have short clips of different people having their pictures made . it had all of the critics at the screening in stitches . it is the classic house made not to be lived in . for a while , i didn't think she would ever stop crying . more on the character's name at the end of the review . the difference in the color of their skins is a metaphor for all of their many differences . parts of the mother reminded me of ratzo rizzo from midnight cowboy . given their apparent incompatibility , the audience almost wants to cry out , forget it already . the script is intelligent and never predictable . it tackles sensitive issues , and although the director lets the actors hang out their souls for all to see , it is never exploitive and always sensitive . it is also so funny that it would be possible to view the show totally as a comedy and ignore the messages , but that would be a pity . the sad cello music ( andrew dickson ) serves notice that the picture is to be taken seriously not matter how big the laughs . the one criticism i have is that some of the scenes go on too long , and the film would have been better had editor jon gregory been more vigorous in his approach . the script makes this and all of the other secrets and lies in the story quite plausible . the show can be enjoyed for the big story or the small ones . somebody always draws the short straw . " the show is a grand collection of complex characters , and all become sympathetic by the end . each has a story that will touch or amuse you or both . secrets & lies is a bittersweet comedy and tragedy that is wrapped up effectively . when it is over , you realize you have seen some incredible performances and a magnificent directorial job . i hope to see brenda blethyn's name when the oscar nominations come out . personally , i can not imagine a more horrible name , apologies to all of hortense's out there in the world , and i thank my lucky stars that i was born male with name i like rather than female with a name like hortense . the excellent actress playing hortense at least made me feel a little bit better about my close call with that hideous name . secrets & lies runs a little too long at 2 : 22 . at the time of the press screening , it had not yet been rated by the mpaa , but the little bad language in the show has a few f words so it will probably get an r . there is no sex , nudity , or violence , but it is a very intense show . it would be fine for any teenager , but not younger . i give the film a strong recommendation and award it * * * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : august 29 , 1996 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
carried away is an incredible film being opened slowly around the united states by its distributor fine line features . the film has two amazing performances by dennis hopper and amy irving that are both worthy of oscar consideration , and the rest of the cast gives great performances as well . most of all it is a devastating film although ultimately a hopeful one . it's 5 o'clock already . " ah , now you think , this is the lolita story for our generation . well , maybe it is , but i don't think so . he has the good sense to run away from such a minefield of trouble , but lacks the convictions to stay away for more than a few minutes . from there the story is a mixture of the predicable and the complete surprises . the casting of busey as the major is perfect . his acting is reminiscent of anthony hopkins in one of his pensive english roles . similarly , the director takes amy irving , who hasn't had a good part since micki + maude and yentl , and gets a performance of great beauty of a woman even more trapped in her shell than her lover . none are erotic , but all are tastefully done , and at least one , is quite surprising . amy locane plays a supporting role , but she is excellent and certainly much more effective than sue lyon was in lolita ( 1962 ) . there are a few other characters in this fairly sparse drama . i'm a bad man . but sometimes it is fun to be bad . " the movie is extremely sad , but never lugubrious or manipulative . many of the lines are gems . as joseph puts it , " i don't have any excuse . i guess i wanted to be carried away . " rosalee feeling just as trapped and lost as joseph , declares , " i want to be carried away too . " he uses the lighting to cast darkness on his characters reflective of their feelings about themselves and their lack of opportunities in life . usually cinematographers use their skills to enliven a picture , but here quinn is quite effective in make an already morose tale , even more so . bruce broughton's music is full of soulful violins , flutes , and muted trumpets to cast a dreamy and nostalgic feel over the sets . the music is subdued , but it is perhaps the most hopeful part of the production suggesting the hope of redemption . it is rated r for sex , full frontal male and female nudity , and some bad language . there is no violence . given the nature of the relationships , i do not recommend this show for teenagers . for adults , i give it a strong recommendation and award the film * * * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
if human conditions were patentable , thomas hardy would have the original patent for hopelessness . as woody allen said , " more than any other time in history , mankind faces a crossroads . hardy novels are like that . although you don't read them to have a good time per se , you do gain a greater understanding of life and of your fellow man . the few hardy novels made into films for theatrical release , tess ( 1979 ) and far from the madding crowd ( 1967 ) , have been excellent , and this year's jude joins that elite list . director michael winterbottom with the help of screenwriter hossein amini makes a literal adaptation of hardy's " jude the obscure . " yes , the shocking parts are there , but they are not sensationalized , and the film is so realistic that had i not known the story and it was presented as a true story , i would not have questioned its veracity . usually the press kits you get at the screenings are fairly honest , but this one did have a whopper of a claim . as one of my fellow critics pointed out to me , it says that winterbottom's previous film butterfly kiss was " a tender and touching love story . " butterfly kiss is a story of a vicious serial killer and although i recommended it , it is anything but tender . nevertheless , i am even more impressed by winterbottom's talents after viewing jude . it is his direction that makes the film . the acting is good , but not on par with the direction . actually , a cogent argument could be made that the real genius is in the photography , but more on that latter . the show opens in the 1860s in a muddy hamlet filmed in black and white reflecting its bleakness . his love life is not much better . although it is completely authentic , it serves as a metaphor for the desperation jude feels . it may also give rise to an increase in vegetarianism as it is candid and gory . the dialog is terrific . amini has a deft touch knowing how to adapt the novel for the screen . where this scene leads is quite unpredictable , but not the result - more grief for both of them . needless to say he views this as extremely cruel . in scene after scene , the audience has to be in awe of the beauty of the cinematography by eduardo serra . i lost track of the number of phenomenally gorgeous images . among my favorites are the one of the snow that looks like cumulous clouds that is lit by the early light of day . all of the interior scenes lit with gaslights have a wonderful warmth . i certainly hope and expect to see an academy award nomination for serra's work here . from the simple pleasures of a faire to basic rustic row houses , it feels totally authentic without ever being overdone . adrian johnston's lovely music is full of haunting flutes and of the sad strains of a wailing violin . people should always stay through the credits . in this show you will learn than mel gibson had a part . perhaps it is not the same person . for those who do not remember the novel be forewarned that this beautiful but consistently morose tale reaches a surprisingly and horrible conclusion . it is one that is consistent with the characters and is genuine , nevertheless , if it doesn't put you in tears , i'd be surprised . it is rated r . there is sex , full frontal female nudity , graphic depiction of birth , death , and animal slaughter , but no bad language . i am usually conservative when i say which age group a show is appropriate for , but i am going to go out on a limb on this one . i think it would be okay for most teenagers since they would learn from it . i have a single test for parents . if you would let your kids read the book , then this movie should be okay . yes , life is frighteningly depicted , but it is always realistic and never sensationalized . jude gets a strong recommendation from me , and i award it * * * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
consummate and always reliable director ron howard ( splash , cocoon , parenthood , backdraft , the paper , and apollo 13 ) displays the skill of a hitchcock in crafting his thriller ransom . let me cut to chase . ransom really delivers the goods . it is an engrossing picture that sweeps the audience into its vortex . i predict that audiences will love the show , and the film will easily earn a king's ransom for touchstone pictures . high on the list of what makes any picture a success is the script . based on a story by cyril hume and richard maibaum and on a 1956 glenn ford movie of the same name , alexander ignon and richard price's script is highly intelligent and is always one step ahead of the viewers . kidnapping stories have a canonical , linear structure . although the trailers and almost every review gives away one of the key twists , i will not . suffice it to say that you should expect the unexpected . in a mark of confident writers , they are even willing to set up blind alleys just to keep you on your toes . this is another beauty of the script . thrillers require carefully applied humor to relieve some of the tension . one gorgeous day , the mullen family goes to central park for a science fair . as they do throughout the film , the acting of panic and fear by gibson and russo is genuine and touching . they earn and keep the audience's empathy . not a bad one certainly , and since he has only a small part , it makes little difference . lindo gives a compelling performance . on the phone to his wife , hawkins confesses , " i am so glad we are not rich . you have to thank god for what we have . " yes , the rich do live in their penthouses , but with wealth comes vulnerability . tom is perplexed by it all . what does this mean ? all along the way , the score by academy award nominated composer james horner ( apollo 13 and braveheart ) adds to the building tension without ever overpowering it . similarly the images by academy award nominated cinematographer piotr sobocinski ( red ) provide maximum impact without any cute tricks . only his highly effective slow motion , back and white ending sequence is out of the ordinary . they'll stretch . you give 'em a little time . " in this ensemble cast , sinise and gibson stand out as the best of the best . i'm here to get your boy back . " in the best piece of acting in the show , gibson finally goes totally to pieces on their balcony . tom's devastation is complete at this point . most films today would have overplayed this robin hood metaphor , but not ron howard's . his taste and timing are excellent . just when you think all of the kidnappers have painted themselves in a corner , you are surprised and surprised again . when the credits start to roll , you turn to the person with you and go " wow ! " it is rated r for bloody violence and some bad language . there is no sex or nudity . it would probably be fine for most teenagers since the gore is reasonably contained , and the picture is superbly crafted . i strongly recommend the show to you and give the film * * * 1/2 . ( this happens to be a picture to which i was not invited to the press screening . too bad since this is the first one i am aware of with the press kit on a cd-rom complete with video clips . ) * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
there is a movement afoot in the movie business to restore some of the great classic films so that this generation can see them afresh . some of the work like that done on the umbrellas of cherbourg allows the movie to be better even than that seen by even the original movie audience . so it is with the restoration of alfred hitchcock's 1958 masterpiece vertigo . working with some of the original master tapes , the restorers have given the film a digital stereo sound track . hearing bernard herrmann's music conducted by that great master muir mathieson makes the effort worthwhile . his haunting melodies are quite dramatic with the horns using their lowest notes . that the restorers also give us a cleaned up print and vastly improved color rendition is a bonus . restoration is a difficult process depending on many factors . here the result is less than perfect , which is not meant as a criticism . the interior sequences are bursting with rich and highly textured colors , but the exterior ones still seem a bit washed out . there are a couple of scenes where the print gets too dark and where the color matching is off . on the whole , however , the restoration works , and it is a joy to see this classic in its full glory . this feeling of acrophobia or vertigo is nothing more than a plot device . it provides the glue that holds the mystery of the story together . what makes the film so compelling are the characters swept up in the vertigo of the mystery . bel geddes is easily the most likable actor in the story . midge's costumes by the great edith head and the make-up by wally westmore give her the image of a good looking nerd . she has attractive but overly conspicuous glasses , and clothes that are all too sensible . if you love san francisco as much as i do , and especially if you live near it as i do , the movie provides more gorgeous san francisco settings for you to savor than any other movie . period . it was an awful film , but as i sat watching the expensive and slow minutia of a film shoot , i keep reflecting back to hitchcock's work there over three decades earlier and in the same spot outside . the camera work by robert burks is a masterful blend of wide-angle zooms to create the vertigo effect in the audience and of a traditional and panoramic approach . the automobile's role in movies has changed dramatically . alfred hitchcock is the king of the mysteries , which is not to say that his are without logical flaws . now that you ask , yes , hitchcock does his standard quick walk through one of the scenes . this " where's waldo " is a favorite of hitchcock fans like myself , and i certainly will give you no hints when this occurs . novak gives a wooden performance in the first half , but is quite intriguing in the second when she comes back to life as judy barton . stewart has not given a bad performance in his life . his acting as an obsessed man in vertigo is good , but not his best . just a couple of examples . ultimately what makes vertigo work so well is the direction by the great master and the stunning music and visuals . my main criticism of the film is that the editing by george tomasini is too slow . the film would have been more effective if more tightly focused and about fifteen more minutes had been left on the cutting room floor . the ending of the show is perfect and shocking if you have never seen it before . vertigo remains a classic bit of cinema that is worth seeing again . i would love to see some local theater do an alfred hitchcock festival . hint . hint . vertigo runs 2 : 08 . it is not rated but would be pg today due solely to the falling scenes . there is no sex , nudity , or bad language . the film will probably only interest kids say ten and up , but would be acceptable kids a little younger . i strongly recommend you check out the restoration now on the big screen as it was meant to be seen and heard . i give the film * * * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
if you think you've seen this material covered before in innumerable other films , you haven't . the garden of the finzi-continis looks at both of its subjects from overlooked perspectives . for the anniversary , sony pictures classics is releasing to the theaters a beautifully restored print with a new dolby stereo sound track . in the press kit they gave me , they cite twenty-six international awards the film won at the time . i could not find a single problem with the print unlike some other recent restorations i have seen . since the images are central to this film's effectiveness , the restoration is an important part of what i hope will be a successful rerun . not a dream in any conventional sense , but a dream nevertheless . the whole texture of the film is ethereal , and the lush cinematography by ennio guarnieri uses a soft haze to enhance the mood . and it goes on and on . as the show opens , however , the law's harshness seems irrelevant to our protagonists . their solid white tennis clothing shines in the slightly overexposed images . he figures that this is his opening , but it is not to be . surprisingly , most of the show takes place before there are any major fissures in the ball . even as the whole world begins to collapse , it is no one's fault . this is not a perfect show . for one , by today's standards it seems curiously dated at times . for another , there are some hard to believe sequences . this incongruity perplexes giorgio and me . his reaction is probably what mine would have been . the music by bill conti ( the right stuff ) and manuel de sica is worth the effort put into its restoration . it takes the audience on a journey from romantic to bittersweet to tragic and finally , to hopeless sad . a simple and beautiful , but completely tragic ending . it is in italian with english subtitles . in 1970 , the picture was rated r , but today it would get a pg-13 . there is no sex , bad language , or violence . there is only two brief scenes of partial female nudity . this year's the nutty professor got a pg-13 , and this show is a hundred times tamer . this film would be fine for kids say ten and up . i strongly recommend the movie to you and give it * * * 1/2 . to be honest , if i had not considered when the film was made , i would have given it a half star less . perhaps some of its approaches do seem dated , but the show is full of simple truths and great beauty . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
it widely acknowledged that there is a fine line between genius and madness . with some incredible performances , expect to see this movie on many best of the year lists . his manic speech pattern has the cadence of an auctioneer , and his sentences sound like gibberish . but , it is not to be . the weak get crushed like insects . " the film has three great performances . rush will probably draw the most praise , but i was just as impressed by mueller-stahl and taylor . the effect that peter has on david is devastating and almost terminal , but you will find yourself feeling sorry for peter as well . in most films , when the father terrorizes the son this much , the audience instantly hates the villain father . here it is much more complex . the script by jan sardi and the directing by scott hicks never go for the cheap thrills or easy put-downs . this is not a documentary , but it has a documentary's inherent authenticity . the cinematography by geoffrey simpson ( little women ) is at its best here . watch how david's hair is backlit so that you can see the sweat pouring off of every hair follicle . at a certain point , david's brain snaps . it is easy to understand some of the possible reasons . like an animal at a circus side show , he plays to amuse the crowds at restaurants . if it weren't real , this part would have been ludicrous . there is much to admire in shine , but its beauty has to be seen and heard . the piano music in the film is played by the real life david helfgott , and it is sublime . words can not adequately convey this moving tale . scott hicks could have approached this story as a morose tragedy . shine runs 1 : 45 . it is rated pg-13 . there is some rear male nudity , very brief sex , and the violence of hitting . there is no bad language . given its frank treatment of child abuse , i would suggest the film is for kids only say eleven and up . i recommend the picture strongly and give it * * * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
with the great cast of edmund gwenn , maureen o'hara , gene lockhart and natalie wood , the film is both imaginative and witty . its approach is simple -- put st . nick on trial . gwenn's academy award winning performance should delight everyone , young and old . kris turns out to be a bit of a radical . it doesn't make any difference if macy's or someone else sells the toy . " gwenn is a sweet actor who was perfectly cast for the role . he looks more like a benevolent old man than the santa claus he claims to be , which makes his claims both dubious and interesting at the same time . you're just a nice old man with whiskers . " one of the themes in the show has to do with insanity . a hearing to get him released forms the dramatic core of the picture . i am a big fan of movie trials . this one is trickier than most . the acting is superb all around . the script is lovely , good spirited and perfect viewing for the christmas season . a show that teaches good morals , but is never pedantic . the ending could not be a better . the music by cyril j . mockridge alternates between the sugary sweet and the dramatically melancholy . maybe a little sappy , but i loved it . yes , this classic black and white movie was remade in 1994 in color . amazingly george seaton even did the script for both . although i liked the remake , the original is much better . this 1947 classic , sentimental christmas movie is worth seeing again and again . perhaps its best message is that of the mother's , " if things don't turn out just the way you want the first time , you still have to believe . " it is not rated , but would certainly get a g . there is no sex , nudity , violence , or profanity . my son jeffrey , age 7 1/2 , says , " i liked it a lot ! " i strongly recommend this marvelous film to you and give it * * * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
so what are the christmas traditions at your home ? at ours , for as long as i can remember , we have curled up on the sofa and watched dr . in the middle of a frantic christmas season , there is no better respite from the buy-me commercialism of the holidays than this short , but poignant story by dr . seuss . and there are few children's authors as literate and imaginative as the great dr . seuss . it is a shame that more of his works have not been made into movies or at least televised shorts . t . for which he wrote the screenplay . his stories usually rhyme . his arguments are convincing ones . will ever again be satisfied with the twenty-six puny little letters we have in english . as he so amply demonstrates , there are so many words that just can not be spelled with them . the grinch is narrated by the great boris karloff . his rich and powerful voice dominates the film . his villain is mean enough to be real without being too scary , thus giving us a film which can be enjoyed by three year olds as well as eighty-three year olds . although he speaks his lines , his voice is so melodious that it is singing to my ears . the animation is minimalist , but heartwarming . it has all the looks of an inexpensive production for television , which it was , but do not be fooled by its low cost exterior . this is a film with a big heart that manages never to be sappy no matter how familiar the story may sound . called whoville , it is populated with normal rockwell style cartoon figures . typical is little cindy lou who , " who is no more than two , " and who has a smile that would melt butter . the morose grinch has a sweet little dog . one look at the dog , and it is love at first sight for the audience . the songs by albert hague are as hokey as can be , but still lovable . this is an old children's show , so you have to give it a little leeway . the absolutely predictable ending is none the less effective . maybe christmas , he thought , means a little bit more . " it is not rated but would get a g . there is nothing offensive or scary in it . it is an ideal show for all ages at christmas . my son jeffrey , age 7 1/2 , my wife , and i all recommend it to you strongly . the world would be a better place if everyone would ponder its clear message . i give the grinch * * * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
the sound of music ( 1965 ) was one of the most popular films of the 1960s . although a bit corny , it is a joyous musical odyssey suitable for the entire family . today , too often what goes for musicals , see for example evita , is little more that a show with a single decent song . in the sound of music every song is tuneful and most are memorable and moving . some shows are meant to be seen in a movie theater on a large screen with an impressive sound system to match . the sound of music is one of them . nevertheless , our family enjoyed it at home . we have a high quality home theater setup , but the full effect can only be experienced in a real theater . i have not seen the film that way in thirty years . this review is from the home viewing rather than my memory . the academy award for best picture for 1965 went to the sound of music as did that for director robert wise . ( you can read my recent review of his quite different film from 1951 , the day the earth stood still . ) the film also garnered the award for music and editing plus many nominations . only the supporting actress nomination to peggy wood as mother abbess did not make sense to me . wood had a somewhat insignificant role and did not impress me with her acting in it . nicely done , but nothing outstanding . although i never saw mary martin as maria , it is hard for me to believe she could have had the infectious joy and energy that andrews brought to the role . this is hard to describe other than to say it is a blend of a travelogue , a nature documentary , a musical , and a cinematographic tour de force wrapped into one . all i can say is that it would have been a hard choice to choose between them . he films it in a hazy pale blue with a white that sparkles . when the two teenagers in the room make eyes at each other in the romantic environment , you will feel like an adolescent all over again . it is a truly magical scene . the movie is filled with songs , and there are even some simple dance numbers . i can remember a time when i was a teenager like him and one kiss from a girl , especially a beautiful one , could evoke a response as strong as rolfe's . times change and teenagers are regretfully much more sexually sophisticated now . still , the lone kiss in that scene remains powerful . in a show that is so upbeat it has been criticized as being sappy , there is the tension of the looming war . " just make sure it doesn't happen to you . " although this war reality is ever-present and although the film is based on a true story , the movie feels like a lovely and enduring fairy tale . this is a movie filled with exuberance , memorable songs , and great beauty . the sound of music runs 2 : 55 . a bit long for a musical , but it is a lot of fun . the movie is not rated but would be a g . there is no sex , nudity , violence , or profanity . my son jeffrey , age 7 1/2 , gave it a thumb almost totally up . his only complaint was that he thought the ending should have told us more about what happens to them later . i agree and recommend it strongly to your family . i give it * * * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : january 2 , 1997 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
" if the first amendment will protect a scumbag like me , it will protect all of you , " explains pornographic magazine publisher larry flynt , played with bravado and panache by woody harrelson . one wonders if forman had a list of candidates from david duke on , but flynt does fill the bill as being a suitably unlikely hero . you may have never thought about someone like flynt being the guardian of your liberty , but in harrelson's sympathetic portrayal of flynt , he makes a compelling and cogent case . the beauty of the film is that , even if you hate everything " hustler " magazine stands for and even if you disagree with forman's logic in the story , the film itself is so audaciously fun that it is a certain crowd pleaser . no one has ever insulted people , especially courts , with such intense bravado as flynt does in the movie . you can be sure that the picture will garner many an academy award nomination as it has already made most 1996 top ten lists . although he will eventually be almost fatally wounded and spend much time in seclusion like howard hughes , he will maintain a fabulously wealthy lifestyle . whenever someone suggests that something is too sick to print , flynt ridicules them and makes sure that the obscene cartoon or story runs exactly as proposed . exclaims flynt . " all i'm guilty of is bad taste . " as you can already see , the script by scott alexander and larry karaszewski is full of deliciously funny morsels of dialog . the wording manages to be simultaneously humorous , believable , and insightful . combine this with the tour de force acting by harrelson , love , and north , and you have the makings of a great movie . people prosecuting poor pornographer larry are not shown in the best of lights as this is a fairly one sided presentation . typical is one of his judges who looks exactly like jabba the hut and is just about as reasonable . still , larry makes succinct and convincing arguments . as he puts it , " if you don't like hustler magazine , don't read it . " " i don't like what larry flynt does . " in a large convention center made up to look like a presidential nominating convention , larry address a crowd . eventually this phase will pass . believe it or not , i have merely scratched the surface of this epic drama . i did not get to the charles keating ( james cromwell ) as worse than larry flynt subtext , the funny role of clinton aide james carville as an indignant prosecutor , the supreme court case , and the many drug scenes . " i'm rich , and i'm always in trouble . " you may or may not buy larry flynt as the saviour of your freedoms , his own daughter ridiculed the idea this week , but the movie is great and compelling cinema . words do not adequately describe its scale or the effectiveness of its humor . people vs . larry flynt runs 2 : 07 , but its breadth made me think it was much longer . it is rated r for sex , nudity , violence , profanity , and hard drug usage . this is a hard r film and would be appropriate for teenagers only if they are quite mature . unbelievably , many families in my audience brought their young kids . there were a dozen kids ages 3 to 7 near me . whenever lewd behavior would start on the screen , the kids would ask their parents what was happening , but they were consistently told to shut up . i felt like grabbing the parents by their throats and asking if they had lost their minds . for adults and mature teenagers , i recommend this film strongly to you and give the picture * * * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : january 6 , 1997 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
woody allen's musical everyone says i love you is a delightful and infectiously happy movie . as a film critic , i can rarely afford myself the luxury of taking the time to see a movie twice , but i made an exception for everyone says i love you . why confine the pleasure to a single setting ? allen attracts talent to his projects , but this show has even more than normal . almost everyone in the picture , as in most of allen's films , are quite well off . " how did i end up with a kid on the other end of the political spectrum ? " " how did i fail ? " woody loves poking fun at everyone . the way scott's conservative values are " resolved " in the film will undoubtedly infuriate some , but i thought it was hilarious . woody is the star of the picture as steffi's ex-husband joe . " if i took the concorde , i could be dead three hours earlier . " woody plays his usual character obsessed with death -- mahler , but funnier . being overly debonair , he confesses , " there was a moment there when i stroked when i should have hickeyed . " all of the above is great comedy , but it is the musical part that makes the film stand out . the film is like a traditional musical and unlike evita in that the musical numbers are frequent , but most of the lines are spoken , not sung . the musical numbers come from great old songs and are sung by the cast . some of them have weak voices , with woody's being the smallest , but all of them manage to provide happiness and mirth . it is hard to choose which of the musical numbers i liked best . many of them rely on choruses . easily the most imaginative musical number happens in the funeral parlor . he gathers other ghosts to sing , " enjoy yourself , enjoy yourself , it's later than you think . " the film is exceedingly beautiful , certainly the most attractive movie allen has ever made . his usual cinematographer , carlo di palma , can be credited . talking the colors from a central park in fall that has never looked lovelier , he uses that color palette for all of the photography . unlike typical allen films we also get location shots in such picturesque locales as paris and venice . everyone says i love you is a joy to behold . you leave the theater with a song in your heart and wanting to repeat the experience again . everyone says i love you runs 1 : 41 . it is rated r for a single bad word from a rap song . other than that , the film is pure pg . as soon the rap guy appears , cover your kids ears for a few seconds and the singer and his one profanity will be history . with that precaution you can take kids of any age to see the film although those under nine will probably not be interested . i strongly recommend the picture to you and give it * * * 1/2 . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . review written on : january 31 , 1997 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
there is a scene in rosewood that captures the film's essence . mr . mann's facial expressions alone say more than the entirety of many lesser movies . boyz n the hood director john singleton brings a true story to life with such immediacy that it grabs your heart and your mind . i think of him as a talky , action director , but the brilliance of rosewood happens in the silence . the casting of the film is perfect . ving rhames , in the lead role of mr . mann , delivers a performance worthy of oscar consideration . his mr . mann is an heroic figure of almost mythic proportions , and yet he is both quite vulnerable and totally believable . mr . mann reminds me of a statuesque and powerful hero from a wagnerian opera . voight gives a moving performance as someone caught in the middle . the anguish on his face and , again , his silent moments are almost as strong as those of rhames . even the names of the two leads , which in the movie sound like " mr . man " and " mr . right " , have a force of their own . i will assume that the film is accurate , but i know most filmmakers take varying degrees of license with purportedly true stories . nevertheless , based on what i have read , i believe most of it is true . ) i am inclined to keep the facts of the incident to a minimum so that you can be as affected and moved by the film as was i . suffice it to say that people are lynched and murdered . overall the feeling left with this critic is that i had just seen a small version of an american krystalnacht . i don't believe this was due to any conspiracy . rather i attribute this lack of publicity on the rosewood incident to the reticence of the people at the time to admit to what had happened , the whites for fear of prosecution and the blacks for fear of reprisal . gregory poirier's richly textured script is incredible . it manages to populate the film with as many people as a tolstoy novel and still develop them enough so that you know and care about a myriad of characters . his script engulfs the audience in a wide range of emotions from fear to anger to pity . an easy mistake to make would have been for singleton to craft an ultra-violent diatribe against racism , thus making a statement and little more . another result of the film then has to be respect and appreciation for the good aspects of a period in black history rarely seen in the cinema . if there is a single part of the picture that stands out more than any other , it has to be johnny e . jensen's cinematography . using a palette of warm browns and oranges he magnifies the story's hope and misery . best are the scenes in which figures are backlit , but all of the images of mr . mann are worth mounting and framing . when i tell you that star wars composer john williams did the score , what do you think it sounds like ? well , you are wrong . it is more intimate than overpowering and quite delicate . the supporting cast is so talented that i have trouble deciding whom to mention . i left feeling privileged to have seen this film . and the horrors inflicted upon them are something i will not forget . rosewood runs too long at 2 : 19 . trimming it some would have made the film more focused and effective . there are some pretty intensely violent scenes , but none are sensationalized . the show is important so it is my fond hope that most parents will take their teenagers to see it . there not that many graphic scenes -- just tell them to shut their eyes if they need to . i strongly recommend the picture to you and give it * * * 1/2 . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . review written on : february 13 , 1997 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
does the world need another mob movie ? just the facts ma'am . the mob in this movie is neither glamorous nor particularly horrifying - just a bunch of working-class stiffs out to make a living . others , such as being " whacked , " certainly exceed the fear of being downsized . at least if you lose your job , in most firms death is not part of the severance package . director mike newell , whose recent work has been with such wonderful , lighthearted comedies as four weddings and a funeral , sets a factual tone from the beginning . the gangsters in this film are much more human and accessible characters . they perform terrible deeds certainly , but none are awarded the mythical and heroic status most such pictures bestow on hoodlums . just as actors get into character for a part and have trouble breaking out , so does joe . it's difficult keeping the family together if you can only see them sporadically . all of this notwithstanding , pistone was one of the most important fbi plants ever . pacino's lefty looks at first like a consummate professional crook . ( as you watch their antics , you realize that the moniker wiseguy has such great irony . " thirty years i'm busting my hump , " complains lefty . " what have i got ? " " who am i ? i'm a spoke on a wheel . " together pacino and depp turn in two fascinating performances with believable macho chemistry between the two of them . the story concentrates on relationships and political intrigues rather than violence . a well developed subplot deals with the difficulties of donnie's home life and tells this part of the story with a realism i have not seen before . you empathize with the wife and kids , and yet depp transfers the feeling of being trapped so that you can understand both sides . " i am them . " their inept therapist gives them lectures full of jargon that are so far off base that they border on parody . the script is highly polished . director mike newell's skill can be seen throughout . this can be seen in potentially the most horrific act of violence in the picture . newell shows just enough so that the actions are clear , but he does not let his cameras linger . the resulting image possesses a humorously macabre feeling . joe couldn't leave his work at the office like most of us . if you think you have seen it all when it comes to the mob , think again . even if you could care less about organized crime , donnie brasco is as interesting an exploration of the human spirit and failings as it is a story about crime and moral turpitude . it is rated r for violence , profanity , and sexuality . it would be fine for most teenagers . i highly recommend the film to you and give it * * * 1/2 . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
" you know the old saying that if you don't like the weather , just wait five minutes and it will change ? " " i honestly believe that with hard work we can get it down to 3 to 4 minutes . " glenn has a lot to be proud of . easily one of the best documentary putdowns ever was this is spinal tap from 1984 . i remember the show for christopher guest's line about his amplifier . you see , their rock band was louder , and a priori better , than any other because their volume knob went to 11 rather than merely 10 . as before , he has a leading role and cowrote the witty and intelligent script . this time his cowriter is eugene levy . guest directs the film as well , which illustrates his talents better than any other part he has in the picture . his comedic sense of timing combined with the hilarious script had me laughing so hard i thought i would burst . the film is in three acts with a delightful epilogue . the only criticism i have of the picture is that the second act drags some in comparison with the others . although his last production in blaine , a staged version of the movie backdraft , had some unfortunate technical difficulties that forced the fire department to be called in , he has created a special musical for the town's big event . the actors in his musical are every bit as bad as the actors in the movie are marvelous . their mannerisms are so excessively cute that the whole show could have been built around their characters . anytime either of them spoke , i started to giggle . julie carnahan's costumes for them feature iridescent running suits . the actors in the movie approach the comedy so earnestly that i kept finding myself beginning to take the fictional documentary as factual . the more serious they became , the funnier was the humor . and no one was more sincere than dr . pearl . the ridiculous musical with its tacky sets is reminiscent of the " springtime for hitler " musical in the producers , which remains as one of the funniest films ever made . the longest and best act of the movie is the third , which is devoted to the musical . in a movie this good it is hard to pick out a favorite part , but for me it has to be the one where corky shows us his movie memorabilia collection . certainly , andre and wally are the most improbable candidates for action figures imaginable . although i was sitting in a press screening with just four other people in the theater , i felt like clapping when the film ended . it is that good . a more delightful and good humored show i have not seen in a long time . it is incorrectly rated r for a couple of bad words . the film is a classic g picture and would be fine for kids of any age . i give the movie a strong recommendation and * * * 1/2 . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
life is short so time is precious . from that axiom we derive a fundamental rule of movie going : don't waste your time at movies starring people whom you know you hate . well , as of two weeks ago , i knew that i could not stand howard stern or jim carrey . the former was merely foul mouthed and the latter was an incorrigible overactor . since i knew this to be so , i studiously avoided listening to or seeing them . there were more than enough alternatives so skipping their acts was a prudent and obvious decision for me . last week i saw howard stern's private parts and found it one of the funniest and sweetest films in a long time . one of my fellow critics suggested i see liar liar and the trailers did look promising , but still this was jim carrey , whose last appearance was in the cable guy . although his incessant physical comedy can easily exhaust his audience , i thought jim carrey's performance was hilarious . i hate slapstick because it usually dissolves into mindless stupidity , but carrey manages to take this brand of humor to a new level . carrey has so much skill and dexterity that he could breathe life into a bad comedy , which liar liar is not . the intelligent script by paul guay and stephen mazur utilizes carrey's talent masterfully . i expected his antics , but was surprised by the quantity and effectiveness of the one line repartee . director tom shadyac has the good sense to let carrey set the pace . in the not-to-be-missed outtakes during the ending credits , you can see how carrey was the star around which the other actors revolved . the film's cast has actors who can complement carrey without ever attempting to upstage him -- probably an insurmountable feat in any case . the chemistry between them , especially in " the claw " routines , is genuine . the film takes the time to setup the long running big joke . " mrs . cole , the only problem here is that after you've provided years of faithful service and loving support raising his children -- , " says fletcher . " one for sure . " like the simple premise in groundhog day from this one fantasy element springs the charm of the rest of the story . feeling compelled to tell the absolute truth can get a person in more trouble than you would imagine . correcting him , fletcher says , " that's just something ugly people say . " beside being a sometimes touching and always sidesplittingly funny film , the movie becomes something of a mystery as well as you try to figure out how the trial will end . suffice it to say that the ending is as imaginative as the rest of this delightful picture . liar liar runs a fast hour and a half . it is rated pg-13 for sexual humor and language . this is a mild pg-13 . if your kids are old enough to know about sex , they will probably love the film since it is just as likely to amuse a ten-year-old as a fifty-year-old . a good spirited film that had me doubling over in laughter . i give it a strong recommendation and * * * 1/2 . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
soon a swirl of unanswered questions arise that make it clear that someone may be abusing oliver , but if so , who ? hollow reed is a great film of intense power and ensemble acting that tells the story of these two families . films like this defy characterization . the exquisite script by neville bolt and paula milne is a thriller and a mystery , an examination of child abuse , a discussion of what constitutes a family , an exploration of trust and love , and most of all , a character study . ( every time i try to tell my friends what sling blade is about , i can see from the looks on their faces that they will never go see it . so i fear it may be with hollow reed . the more you know about the superficial aspects of the plot , the less likely you are to want to see it , and yet this compelling film has the power of secrets and lies and deserves a wide audience . ) in a cast of wonderful actors , martin donovan , playing the father martyn , stands out for his incredible and yet understated performance . new film actor sam bould gives a touching performance as the small boy , ollie , at the heart of the controversy . but you must know , what is he covering up and why ? in excellent minor roles , david calder , from the bramwell tv series on masterpiece theater , plays martyn's sincere , but not very reassuring lawyer . even better is edward hardwicke as the judge who looks as though he may require the wisdom of solomon to sort the case out . the script takes care to build a detailed story , not the outline with which most plots content themselves . although the mystery is fairly transparent , director angela pope nevertheless manages to keep the tension high . in the best of thrillers , of which this is one , the eerie calmness of most of the scenes creates more foreboding than cataclysmic events ever could . there is a composed , redemption scene that will have you wanting to scream , " no ! " and when hannah says , " it'll never happen again , " about the abuse , your stomach will likely go into knots . i am not going to give anything away . if you've seen the trailers or read any of the other reviews , you already know more than the little i've told you . i want you to see the film fresh so its power can overwhelm you as it did me . although never manipulative , the intelligent script and moving acting may reduce you to tears even though almost all of the abuse happens off screen . i saw it at a press-only screening with only a half dozen critics present , but i could hear frequent weeping around me . rarely does this happen at such an event . the ending of the movie is strikingly photographed by remi adefarasin and directed with precision and power by angela pope . although the brief epilog afterwards is satisfying , since it allows you to know how the players put their lives back together , it detracts slightly from the film's intensity . then again , perhaps most viewers need that catharsis to make their emotional system whole again after such an experience . it is not rated but would be an r for mature themes , language , sex , and nudity . this is not an nc-17 film , and the abuse is of a physical and not a sexual nature . the film would be fine for mature teenagers . i recommend the picture strongly and give it * * * 1/2 . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
most science fiction movies , good or bad , have a single look and set of characters that they use throughout the entire production . but not luc besson's the fifth element . every five minutes , some totally new character or special effect is introduced . this makes for a highly involving and mesmerizing film . although the film is incorrectly being marketed as the " star wars for the 90s , " it does have some of the imagination of the star wars saga . where it differs , is that the fifth element never takes itself very seriously . the current trend among filmmakers is to engage in a battle with the studio's finance department with the filmmakers' goal being to spend the maximum amount possible on special effects . the fifth element puts some sanity in this trend by spending every penny wisely , producing some of the most dazzling effects in a long time . if you are envisioning a depressing blade runner motif for besson's vision , think again . typical of the innovativeness is its rendering of traffic in a big city in the year 2259 . rather than heavy traffic on the one street level , the airborne cars operate on numerous but carefully controlled parallel logical surfaces . among all of the visual spectacles is a story and some excellent acting as well . bruce willis , who can be terrific but has been in so many dogs like color of night that i have begun to dread seeing his name on the marquee , plays the starring role of the taxi driver and ex-government agent korben dallas . she speaks only a sing-song style of language that baffles korben . the screenplay by luc besson and robert mark kamen has enough complexity to make following it somewhat of a challenge , but never so much as to lose the audience . working through it becomes an interesting diversion , but all eyes stay glued to the screen to see what will happen next . the fifth element is more a feast for the eyes than the mind . the film is filled with cartoonish shoot-'em-up violence , willis , as one of many shooters , plays a much more lovable character than he does in the die hard series . his enjoyment of his character transfers easily to the audience . the chemistry between korben and his sidekick leeloo pulsates with comedic and romantic energy . me protect you . " ) with her quirky mannerisms and speech , jovovich steals most of her scenes . all of the details , right down to the barbecuing of the ugly little parasites on the spacecraft before the flight , are carefully orchestrated with maximum imagination . i believe it . the result overflows with energy and creativity . the fifth element runs 2 : 07 and is worth every minute . it is rated pg-13 for brief female nudity , cartoonish violence , and a little profanity . the film would be fine for kids say 9 or 10 and up . i had great fun at the fifth element so i recommend it to you strongly and give it * * * 1/2 . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . review written on : may 6 , 1997 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
an incredible , but understated character study , it has no special effects and the biggest surprise is the way the story shuns all the popular movie cliches . ( " the bees and i have an understanding . i take care of them , and they take care of me . " ) peter fonda , looking , sounding , and acting like his father henry , gives the best performance of his career -- an astounding piece of acting . a complex character who slowly reveals his feelings , but always seems to have even more bottled up inside . jaded viewers reading words like " troubled vietnam vet " and " rage " will probably have already finished the script in their minds , but they will be wrong . this is not a typical film . rebellious casey is almost more than he can handle . prominently featured in the film is the art of beekeeping . as he awakens , virgil mirano's careful camerawork shoots his view looking up seeing the tablecloth and the light above and thus increases the audience's empathy by showing exactly what ulee's life is like . charles engstrom's music manages to be melancholy without ever being maudlin . as a soft piano tune plays , you become one with the bees and the troubled hero . and , they have something they need to tell ulee . what little narrative drive this character study has will derive from that conversation , but do not be distracted . the show's bounteous rewards come from the character study of ulee . the marvelous supporting cast serve mainly to help ulee reveal himself to us . " no kids fortunately . i guess , fortunately . " as with everything in this realistic story , their relationship moves in sometimes surprising ways and the dialog seems more natural than scripted . the gripping story , which manages to be both intense and peaceful , eventually comes to a carefully orchestrated and satisfactory conclusion . these characters , like good neighbors , are not the sort you like to lose . it is rated r for violence and profanity . the show would be fine for teenagers . i loved this little gem of a movie . i strongly recommend it to you and give it * * * 1/2 . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . review written on : may 27 , 1997 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
told completely from the perspective of the child and containing one of the most mesmerizing performances of the year by victoire thivisol as ponette , the film's development is as unusual as the story itself . when you listen to the film , the dialog almost always rings true . ( only in one sequence , set in the kids' bedroom , does he try to stuff too many adult sized sentences down their little mouths . ) i have not seen a better performance than hers this year . stunning and richly textured , her acting more than makes up for the film's limitations . ( sometimes listening to a bunch of preschoolers babbling on can become tedious . hollywood would gloss over this by hiring some adult stars and shifting the focus away from the children . ) " do you know what that means ? " although quite intelligent , ponette has the mind of a child . thivisol expresses her sadness though a wide range of emotions . her spoken words are touching even if you can't speak a word of french . as you watch the movie , it is impossible to keep from contrasting the images one normally gets of kids in the movies with those in ponette . most movies have kids in minor , but terminally cute roles , as in jerry maguire . if a child actor does have a substantial role , it is rarely in a serious picture . the few potential dramatic roles tend to be adventure yarns , like alaska , where the characters have little depth . " how much longer will you wait for her ? " he barks . " are you crazy or what ? " i want to talk to my mommy . " that she could pull this off without seeming manipulative of the audience's emotions is a tribute to both her and the director . parts of the film are lighthearted . mathias is completely embarrassed . she was no such thing , but kids can sometimes say extremely cruel things . the ending is somewhat of a cheat and goes on too long , but the dazzling performance by victoire thivisol as ponette is not to be missed . not a perfect show , but a wonderfully revealing one . ponette runs just 1 : 32 . it is not rated , but would be g or pg . the film would be fine for all ages . it is in french with english subtitles so those too young to read may be lost . i highly recommend the picture to you and give it * * * 1/2 . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . review written on : june 25 , 1997 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
" that is to say , i was deeply unhappy , but i didn't know it because i was happy all the time . " as a wacky television weatherman , he fits right in with the area's " culture . " in a film so rich that it would take at least three viewings to sift through all of the humor and subtleties , the show's subtext is highly romantic and poignant . the humor is presented with such delicious seriousness that it becomes almost an anthropological exploration of west coast tribes . " i'll be your robber . " ) the resulting film by director mick jackson is so funny that i could not control myself at times -- one belly laugh would not subside before another began . an electronic highway sign plays perhaps the sweetest , and certainly the most unusual character in the story . the sign gives harris prescient advice and even speaks in riddles -- unscramble " how daddy is doing , " commands the sign . rick moranis , in a hamlet take-off , appears as a gravedigger with a thick english accent . thanks to the sparkling and romantic cinematography by andrew dunn , the picture has a magical sense of wonderment about life . a kiss may not be the truth , but it is what we wish were true . " ) " wow , that was something ! " says harris as the show draws to its delightful conclusion . " that was really something ! " as my newfound friends faded away , i thought , " my sentiments exactly ! " it is rated pg-13 for very brief nudity and a little profanity . the show has so much mature humor that i think kids would need to be nine or ten to appreciate it . i strongly recommend this gem to you and give it * * * 1/2 . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
so it is too and even more so with those on the queen's household staff . that most of them are unwritten makes them no less binding . into this carefully regimented life comes one mr . brown . based on historical fact about a relationship -- no , not that kind despite rumors at the time -- between the queen and one of her servants , the film has all of the honesty and fine acting one comes to expect from a british costume drama . brown is so much more . these people are not mere puppets in some lavish production , rather their emotions are heartfelt and vivid . the two leads , judi dench as queen victoria and billy connolly as john brown are both candidates for oscar nominations , as is the film's director , john madden . judi dench gives a brilliantly understated performance as the queen . during this period , mealtimes with her large family include little conversation since one does not speak to the queen unless spoken to , and the queen is not in the mood to talk . " you're not eating enough , " the queen instructs her . into this rigid structure comes a man unwilling to live under its rubrics . mr . brown's radical ideas extend to much more than the queen . this causes so much commotion that it looks like the weaker servants may faint . in the movie's most surprising scene , she goes swimming in the lake . she even wears a hat . there are many such wonderful vignettes in the film . " sometimes i think brown is all i have left of albert , " she reasons . how the story resolves itself is a bit unusual and not near as tidily wrapped up as we have come to expect from our films . more like real life . it is rated pg for a little violence , mild profanity , and brief male nudity . the film would be acceptable for all ages , but kids would have to be at least nine to get anything out of the picture . i strongly recommend the film to you and give it * * * 1/2 . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
afterall , " life is for the taking , is it not ? " reasons chad . as the harmless looking trailers for in the company of men argue , this film has no sex , no special effects , and no monsters , only conversation -- so how scary can that be ? like its female counterpart , the last seduction , the strength of in the company of men is that it never pulls its punches . movie goers used to hollywood endings , where bad guys eventually get their due , may find in the company of men disquieting , but there will be few complaints about the quality of the presentation . the acting is superlative , and the imaginative script has minimalist cadence a la david mamet . the result is at once devastating and compelling . the coup de grace ? aaron eckhart plays chad with macho evil and is one of the best screen villains in a long time . his hearty laughter and charming smile glosses over a malevolent nature always lying just below the surface . whereas eckhart gives his character an alluring likeableness , malloy makes his such a wimp that his is the easier of the two to despise . chad masks his devilish behavior with a beguiling nature , but howard has no such mask . the audience , although not the female victim , can always see through the more transparent howard . christine has not dated in quite a while and worries that men no longer find her attractive or interesting . to press the point that chad's maliciousness extends to more than women , labute includes scenes of chad disparaging his male coworkers as well . in private he humiliates a black intern so completely that you are sure than the scene will cut before he strips the intern of his self-respect , but as in the rest of the story , chad never pulls back . the director has the good sense not to make all of the classic mistakes of most first-timers . and thankfully , he avoids shaky handheld cameras and cute angles . filmed by first-time cinematographer tony hettinger almost totally in the office with the actors' faces lit by the glow of desk lamps , the audience's attention is riveted to the screen without needless distractions . editor joel plotch follows the director's minimalist style so that the focus stays on the characters and their conversations . the question is how . suffice it to say that the intelligent dialog and engrossing story continue to the very last minute . studies of evil are by very their nature controversial , but this is a film that demands to be seen . and with three such wonderful performances , it is a film well worth going out of your way to find . it is rated r for mature themes and some profanity . the show would be acceptable for teenagers if they are mature . for adults , i strongly recommend the picture and give it * * * 1/2 . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . review written on : august 4 , 1997 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
few people who have seen the classic 12 angry men from 1957 will ever be able to forget it . the film itself has a history of which only the most avid cinema buffs are aware . the secret is that the 1957 movie is a direct adaptation of a live television production from 1954 . the production won three major emmy awards -- best director for franklin schaffner , best actor for robert cummings , and most of all , best writer for reginald rose . rose's script would be used with minor changes but no substantial improvements in the 1957 movie as well as the 1997 television remake . i went to the museum of television and radio in manhattan to view the original 1954 production . besides the facilities for viewing just about any old television program imaginable , they have several different collections being shown simultaneously on movie sized screens . my favorites of the latter were an anthology of science fiction in television over the past forty years and one featuring three classic alfred hitchcock episodes . but i digress . the plot , which looks simple , becomes anything but as the story unfolds . although the cast is perhaps not quite as strong as in the remakes , it has significant depth . among others , the cast includes robert cummings , franchot tone , edward arnold , paul hartman , john beal , and walter abel . the show starts with a dramatic charge by an excessively somber judge . " i urge you to deliberate earnestly and thoughtfully , " he intones with the low bass voice of a old preacher at a funeral . " you are faced with a grave responsibility . " most of the jurors keep their ties on and their coats buttoned , as was the custom of the time , making the heat even more insufferable . " i've never seen a guiltier man in my life . " some are reasonable but others stick to diatribes . the intelligent script manages to include most types of people with the racist on the jury being the most outlandish . the great testament to the quality of the story is that none of the 12 feel like cliches although many certainly are . the story has a timelessness and an honesty to it that few others can match . robert cummings plays the persistent juror who wants to slow down the process at least enough so that the young kid charged with murder gets a fair hearing in the jury room . since it was live tv one can never be sure why , but he gets his words a bit mixed up at first and almost starts to stutter . it was probably planned , and it is just the kind of realistic event that would happen in such circumstances . cummings gives the best of several outstanding performances . the production is full of theatrics such as the men's almost coming to blows , but it is presented with such honesty that it is easy to forgive its shortcomings . as the people sweat and the street sounds from outside flow into the room , every member of the viewing audience feels like they are on the jury as well . despite what you might believe , early television was generally fairly awful . studio one : twelve angry men runs probably an hour or so without the commercials . it is not rated but would be pg only for the mature themes , and the show would be fine for kids old enough to be interested . i recommend it strongly if you should ever be presented an opportunity to see it , and i give it * * * 1/2 . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
director jean-luc godard's contempt ( le mepris ) has been hailed by some critics as one of the best films ever made . the dialog remains more romantic than sexual although with brigitte bardot playing the part of the wife , camille javal , the audiences at the time of the picture's release may have had trouble concentrating on the lines spoken . ( the modicum of female rear nudity may have been a bit shocking at the time , but the movie is quite tame by today's standards . ) godard's film wants to challenge your mind and not titillate your senses , hence the few nude scenes are there more for realism than exploitation . brigitte bardot gives an incredible performance as the 28-year-old typist who does not have a clue about what she wants in life . the film works precisely because she convinces us of her disdain for most aspects of her life , especially her marriage . what could he have said or done that made her feel thus ? when odyssey's director fritz lang , played by the great director himself , starts talking about how cultured the performance will be , jerry will have none of it . " every time i hear the word culture , i bring out my checkbook , " he declares as he writes a check on the spot to paul to rewrite the script . lacking the smooth refinements of the rest of the characters , jerry , played by jack palance , is crude but believes himself more refined than any of them . " gods , i like gods , " he says about his movie . " i know exactly how they feel . " godard has a great sense for the visual , and his films are feasts for the eyes . in contempt several scenes are memorable . and then , who could forget the opening scene of her lying on the sheets with her toes twirling in the air . my personal favorite aspect of the production is the music by georges delerue . it has a timelessness and a sweeping grandeur that starts off romantic but becomes increasingly morose as the tragedy unfolds . the film is about many things . certainly godard's love of the cinema comes across in ways explicit and subtle . the film , which is more a dramatic tone poem than a traditional movie , ultimately is about the impact of the death of love . effusive jerry couldn't care less about any of this . contempt is an entrancing and moving film that leaves its audiences thinking and somewhat devastated . one may forget many of the story's details , but its impact will remain . contempt runs 1 : 45 but feels much shorter perhaps because the story takes place in less than 24 hours . the film is partially in french with english subtitles and partially in english . it is not rated but would be a mild r for some female rear nudity , a little profanity , and a little violence . the film would be fine for teenagers . i strongly recommend you see or rent this marvelous film , and i give it * * * 1/2 . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . review written on : august 16 , 1997 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
. . . in a predominately jewish audience in greenish village , i was privileged to be able to see this incredible film . given that most documentaries get at most a highly limited release , i will try to go into more detail than normal , both to encourage you to try to find the film and to tell you the gist of the story since you probably never will be able to see it . it should get an academy award nomination , but given the unreliability of the documentary branch of the academy -- even hoop dreams was ignored -- it will undoubtedly slip into obscurity without the honors it deserves . the film makes sparing use of the traditional talking heads and has some well chosen old film clips and still pictures to illustrate the history . the men wear black hats and suits and have scraggly beards and two long " side curls . " the second half of the film comes back to some of this controversy but the rest of the first part is devoted to an almost completely sympathetic view of hasidics . still , their rules may seem anathema to most of us , while we envy their undeniable and infectious happiness . if there is one word that symbolizes this close knit community it has to be love . they say that they emphasize the positive benefits of doing the right thing rather than warning their members of the consequences of doing something wrong . storytelling is their method of teaching , and the movie relates several of these short stories . these are persistent people . one man in the film had 79 grandchildren . one of my favorites is a female shopkeeper who talks about seeing television for the first time while in the hospital . the filmmakers point out that this limits them generally to at best a middle-class lifestyle and not a very lavish one with a dozen mouths to feed . although happy , the hasidics do not assimilate well . they want nothing to do with outsiders , not because they don't like them , but because they have their own community . even given the self-imposed limitations of their lifestyle , hasidic jews remain unabashedly exuberant . this documentary manages to be as happy and funny as the hasidic jews themselves . the result is a very convincing film makes you yearn for their simple and contented life . it is not rated but would be a g . the film would be fine for all ages , but i suspect one would need to be at least nine to appreciate it . i strongly recommend the film and give it * * * 1/2 . maybe someday it will play in your city or perhaps one day you find a dusty tape at a video store with this film inside . keep your eyes peeled . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . review written on : august 15 , 1997 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
day for night is a marvelous celebration of the art and toil of filmmaking . for those interested in the mechanics and the background of the creation of movies this picture should be on your must-see list . day for night won the oscar for best foreign film in 1973 and received nominations for best director and screenwriter for francois truffaut and best supporting actress for valentina cortese . with an excellent print , the film is showing now in manhattan . hopefully , the print will make its way around the country so others can share the joy i had in seeing it . the english title day for night for the french film le nuit americaine comes from the way filmmakers can shoot nighttime scenes during the day and then darken them in the developing to look like night . the title is apt in that the fascination of the picture comes from the behind the scenes look we get at the way pictures are made . a two hour documentary would not reveal less and certainly would not be as involving as day for night . we see all of the details , large and small . the actors step over the camera rails as they are being filmed and are careful not to trip . we watch them acting from facades and observe the director and the editor pouring over the day's film stock . like real movie making , the production of meet pamela has a slew of problems , which puts the director's 7-week schedule in jeopardy at every turn . the lab destroys a complicated and costly crowd scene . still , little that happens , except the ending , is a surprise . the masterwork of the movie is that truffaut makes both day for night and the cheap melodrama meet pamela fascinating without tricks or gimmicks . but the picture is no boring pseudo-documentary . the actors come alive with enough mini-dramas for a couple of daytime soap operas . valentina cortese plays the older actress severine , who drinks too much and forgets her lines as pamela's mother-in-law . jean-pierre leaud plays the impetuous young actor alphonse , who is in love with bisset in both pictures -- who wouldn't be ! if you've never quite understood how romances on movie sets develop , this movie demonstrates how quite convincingly . in a revelation of the duality of an actor's real and celluloid lives , julie and pamela come to the same conclusion . " i know that life is rotten . " although written a quarter of a century ago , the film seems remarkably fresh and relevant . the director complains that , " the godfather is showing all over nice , and it's killing the other movies . " with this summer's action blockbusters taking over most of the screens this comment becomes so apropos . the film is in french with english subtitles . it is rated pg for mild profanity and for sexuality . the film would be fine for teenagers and those a bit younger . i loved this sweet film and think you would too , so it gets a strong recommendation from me and * * * 1/2 . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
with intelligent and funny dialog and a strong cast of then minor league actors , the film amazes one on subsequent viewings almost as much as on the first . this is one of a continuing series of reviews in which i review classic family pictures when my son sees them for the first time . he is as proud to be a small part of this review as i am of producing the rest of it . the beauty of lloyd's hilarious performance is that he takes himself completely seriously as if he is the only one who does not understand that this is a comedy . marty , played with a sweet angst by michael j . fox , is the linchpin of the film's success . fox's portrayal of a character with whom all ages can empathize is central to the film's timeless and magical allure . watching biff's abuse of george is the visual equivalent of scraping fingers across a blackboard . thompson delivers two performances -- as an older woman with unrealistic layers of fat and as a sweet young thing back in high school . in the latter , she is charming and sometimes even shocking . in a wonderful blend of science fiction and nostalgic comedy , marty ends up being accidentally blasted back thirty years in time . now , there is something to upset the time-space equilibrium . the test of a movie's brilliance is how well it develops the small details , and in this regard back to the future rarely disappoints . after a predictable but completely satisfying ending getting back to the future , the show has a delicious little epilogue . try to imagine how your life might be changed for the better by just a little judicious rejiggering of your past . with the chutzpah of utter confidence in the success of his material , zemeckis ends back to the future boldly proclaiming , " to be continued . . . " it is rated pg for some profanity . the show would be fine for kids of all ages . my son jeffrey , age 8 , really got into the story and said it was " awesome , radical . " he also commented that he liked the way that there was no blood in it . i recommend the picture to you highly and give it * * * 1/2 . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
follow the bouncing ball and sing-along , " macho , macho man , i want to be a macho man . " now , as this is essentially in and out's theme song , keep it going in your subconscious as you read the rest of this review , and it will put you in just the right mood to hear about one of the funniest comedies of the year . what if the teacher either wasn't gay or wasn't known to be gay ? the resulting movie , in and out , by writer paul rudnick from jeffrey and director frank oz from the indian in the cupboard and dirty rotten scoundrels , literally bursts with comedic energy . the audience at my advanced screening laughed so hard and so often that it would take another viewing to hear all of the delicious jokes properly . in short , he is terrific especially in the film's dance routine . ( for the record , i think steve martin would have been even better but kline gives a performance worthy of oscar consideration . ) the real academy awards show should be this funny . after film clips of cameron in an awful war picture , glenn close names the best actor nominees including steven seagal for a snowball in hell , an obvious reference to his chance of ever getting the real award . " i may sue , " howard off-handedly suggests to them . stay tuned . " easily the funniest part of the show is the training howard puts himself through to demonstrate his masculinity . he repeats the first two fine -- " yo " and " hot damn . " arnold doesn't dance . you will never be able to hear this song again without dancing around the room . the script itself is the real star of the show . it manages to elicit huge laughs without resorting to slapstick , and it finds humor in unlikely spots . everyone in the movie is in top form . bob newhart , as the dour principal , gets away with lines that would sound ridiculous coming from anyone else . joan cusack takes a simple prop -- a fluffy white wedding dress -- and does more funny things with it than would seem possible . about halfway through the film , the writer briefly looks as though he has painted himself into a comedic corner , but he extricates the story quickly and picks right back up with the humor . the show ends with a suitably uproarious sequence . in and out is such a splendid and infectiously happy comedy that when you walk through the parking lot after the movie , you will undoubtedly still be able to hear the audience's laughter and the show's energetic music reverberating in your head . it is rated pg-13 for mature themes and a little profanity . the show would be fine kids around ten and up . i recommend the picture to you highly and give it * * * 1/2 . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
documentaries can provide in-depth examinations into worlds or subjects that you may know little about . the best documentaries force you to reexamine some of the " facts " that you already know . the even-handed and highly acclaimed new documentary , waco : the rules of engagement , is an astonishing piece of work . and no one can watch this film by producers amy sommer gifford and dan gifford and director william gazecki without an appreciation for the quality of the film itself . a tour de force that should get an academy award nomination but probably will not , given the historic eccentricities of the documentary branch of the academy . the film uses a wide variety of footage to examine what happened in waco and to explore who the davidians were . most of the documentary is pieced together from historic tapes , but some fresh material is presented as well . their leader , david koresh , with his constant two-day-old beard and his curly hair , looked like someone from central casting , but the other davidians seemed much less mesmerized by him that one would expect . as a native texan , this logic certainly rang true . the atf had 100 agents for the initial assault . easily the most convincing material in the documentary concerns the final assault by the government . the producers were at a special screening i attended . so , are there flaws in the documentary ? undoubtedly , but overall it is a convincing and surprisingly well balanced presentation . my only quibble is with the length . the filmmakers got a bit too involved in their material with the result that the film goes on about a half hour longer than it should . a shorter , more focused film would have had more impact . when i asked the producers about it , they disagreed and argued that they had already chopped thirty minutes from the version shown this year at sundance . the best films are those you'll never forget and those that cause you to reexamine your assumptions . waco : the rules of engagement is just such a film . it is not rated but would be an r for the mature subject matter and a few scenes of charred bodies . it would be fine for serious teenagers . i recommend this picture to you highly and hope to see it at academy award time . and , i give it * * * 1/2 . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
it's frequently the small details that make the difference between a good picture and an outstanding one . the adults in the film , and to lesser extent the teenagers , are as cold to each other as ice , and each will be broken in many ways before their melancholy story ends . " i have a husband . i don't have a need for another one . " carol oditz's costumes and michael bigger's make-up gives the early 70s an accurate but exceedingly ugly look . never have long lapels and gaudy leisure suits looked worse . again , metaphors abound . and i do mean experiment . all of the performances are tour de force , but incredibly depressing . the show offers only a few possibly redemptive scenes . the film's long ending sequence makes the picture . as its title suggests , it includes an ice storm . never has sex seemed more dismal that in this sad game of spouse-swapping . but the ice storm is never a comedy , not even a black comedy . it is a deadly serious and morose morality tale and the slowest and the darkest movie yet from ang lee . it is a devastating film that will almost certainly leave you emotionally drained . it is rated r for drugs , sex and mature themes . the film would be fine for older and mature teenagers . i strongly recommend the picture to you and give it * * * 1/2 . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
it was an age of sincerity . " i fake passion . i fake conviction . " director iain softley , whose only other films are the mediocre backbeat and the painfully unwatchable hackers , succeeds marvelously this time . " three's a charm " as they say . but with top-notch actors and a timeless story , he would have had to work hard to make it otherwise . if the movie sounds like martin scorsese's award winning the age of innocence , it should . the time period and the study of restrainedresponses are similar , which is not to say the results are the same . scorsese's characters are untapped volcanoes , never erupting but always on the verge . in contrast , as good as softley's presentation is , and it is quite good , his actors smolder rather than burn beneath their calm exterior . never in the wings of the dove does a character seem truly in danger of an unchecked explosion . any lack of perfection in the direction is more than made up by the other members of the film's crew . the english patient's academy award winning composer gabriel yared provides an abundance of dramatic music to punctuate almost every scene . jude's cinematographer eduardo serra gives the film a strikingly handsome look . and most of all , john beard's sets are nothing short of breathtaking . venice has never been more lovely . the excellent , but largely forgotten , actress elizabeth mcgovern plays milly's friend and traveling companion susan . mcgovern , from her first film , the brilliant and devastating ordinary people , has brought something special to any character she has played , but her career has never taken off . " you don't understand me , and i don't understand you , " complains merton to his true love kate . the entire age was like that . people avoided revealing themselves which guaranteed them little hope of being understood . the picture's fascination comes from watching people in torment over these social constraints . it is rated r for some sex and nudity . the movie would be fine for teenagers . i strongly recommend this moving story to you and give it * * * 1/2 . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
in contrast , kevin lomax in devil's advocate does and finds the perks in working for god's opposition to be seductively satisfying even if there are significant drawbacks . most films dealing with the supernatural border on being unwatchably ridiculous . and fictional films about god and temptation are even worse . only the rapture and commandments come to mind as films worth seeing that cover the latter . devil's advocate , thanks to tony gilroy and jonathan lemkin's smart and witty script , based on andrew neiderman's novel , is worth adding to this short list . the picture has you alternating between thinking and laughing . in a cold sweat , kevin resolves his conscience conflict in favor of winning . as kevin , keanu reeves turns in his best performance since speed . punching out lines both powerful and humorous . " it's no different than a big box of chocolates . " ) with andrzej bartkowiak's stunning time lapsed cinematography of new york's skyscrapers , the metaphor seems apt . " it didn't work out -- the book ? " i'm on parole , " kevin replies , smiling obsequiously . " are you really this good ? " theron's superlative acting in this supporting role fills out the storyline . several of her scenes are so strong that they are not likely to be forgotten . the movie uses transformation scenes sparingly but effectively . if you're not careful , you'll find yourself wanting to hang with john . but if you go astray , it's not his fault . " you pull your own strings . " in a long and somewhat surprising ending sequence that blends the sublime with the outlandish , john reveals himself to kevin and explains why it was so easy to entrap him . " vanity , definitely my favorite sin , " john tells kevin as one reason why kevin was so vulnerable . if the devil does walk the earth , he's probably a lot like john milton . devil's advocate runs 2 : 18 , and although it does not need to be that long , the film amazingly does not suffer because of it . the movie is rated r for sex , full frontal nudity , violence , profanity , and mature themes -- remember , this is a movie about the devil . the film would be fine for mature teenagers . i recommend the film highly and give it * * * 1/2 . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . review written on : october 15 , 1997 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
has that body of yours not lived up to your expectations ? has it not proved suitably adroit ? and has your mind been all too fallible ? well , if you lived in " the not too distant future " as vincent does , then you could blame your defects on your parent's choice . although this may sound like aldous huxley's " brave new world , " the mesmerizing new thriller gattaca by writer and director andrew niccol has closer genetic kinship with contact for its love of science and its mystical aura of an unknown future . whereas contact was laden with pretension , gattaca , in contrast , takes a more lyrical than literal approach . the movie gattaca comes with its own fail-safe system . even if you hate the story -- highly unlikely -- the production will dazzle you with its striking beauty . unless all hollywood misses seeing the film , there will undoubtedly be a host of academy award nominations for the film's artistic achievements . from the futuristic treadmills to the desks surrounded by short cylindrical cubicles to the sleekly cold and starkly massive buildings , every set is a treat for the eyes . even the film's hair stylist , bette iverson , deserves special mention for the high greasy sheen look . the net result of this creative team is to transport you to the future without heavy reliance on science fiction gadgets or fancy special effects . " they used to say that 'a child conceived in love is a child of happiness , ' " complains vincent , the film's protagonist . " they don't say that any more . " vincent , played with suitably cold precision but an undeniable inner charm by ethan hawke , has been branded for life by his parent's indiscretion . all of the acting is exceptional with ethan hawke , especially in his voice-over , being the best . in a richly textured show , many minor characters stand out . the film has enough material for a much longer film , but editor lisa zeno churgin manages somehow to trim it down to normal length with the result that every minute is captivating . in a film with so many high points it becomes difficult to highlight a few . " i only lent you my body , but you lent me your dreams . " even the small aspects such as the frequent rockets blazing off to the far planets give the show a serenity that has to be seen to be properly appreciated . my personal favorite : the way one character deduces that the space agency's astronaut is the ersatz jerome . gattaca is the rare show that far surpasses its already promising trailers . gattaca runs a fast 1 : 52 . it is rated pg-13 for a scene of a dead body and for mature themes . although the film would be acceptable for kids nine and up , they probably need to be teenagers to be interested . 
those older wish to be younger and vice versa , the grass always being viewed as greener on the other side of the fence . even with this overdeveloped theme , the academy award nominated script by gary ross and anne spielberg manages to say fresh things and to draw the viewers into a story populated by likable characters . although hanks was nominated for best actor for his part , he was beaten that year by daniel day-lewis in my left foot , the sort of sentimental , big message film that hollywood favors . in big hanks gives one of the best performances of his impressive career . most actors would have approached the part with a heavy emphasis on slapstick and exaggerated gestures , but not hanks . this 13-year-old is just barely a teenager even if he now has a full-sized man's body , and hanks's reactions to his predicament could not be more realistic or touching . and when a carny machine called " zoltar speaks , " offered him a wish , his was a simple one -- " i wish i was big . " marshall is a master at the staging of scenes . avoiding frequent opportunities for special effects , she relies instead on the actors and the dialog to tell the story . in a story with more depth than might be expected , josh secures a position as a " computer operator , " actually a data entry clerk , at a toy manufacturer . as part of josh's fairy-tale life , he gets to play chopsticks with his boss on a huge floor piano at fao schwarz in easily the most captivating scene in the picture . toys to them mean focus groups and demographic studies , but to josh toys only mean fun . when heard gives a stellar presentation on a toy building that transforms , josh disagrees , arguing that there is nothing fun about a building . the most delicate part of the film is susan's crush on josh , which leads to a " sleepover . " marshall , by cutting away just after susan takes off her blouse and josh touches her with childlike innocence , manages to keep the show's pg rating and give the scene incredible but simple beauty . it would be easy to miss how important perkins's performance is in the film . as her ruffles fly all about her , her transformation is palpable . " what's more important than that ? " what indeed . it is rated pg for some profanity and the beginnings of a love making scene . the film would be fine for kids 8 and up , but they may need to be 10 to enjoy it . my son jeffrey , age 8 1/2 , said he thought big was " an okay show . not like anything i've seen before , but i did like it . it was funny but strange in parts . " 
director paul verhoeven , whose previous works include movies as diverse as robocop and basic instinct , takes an especially imaginative and fresh approach to science fiction with his new film starship troopers . with a seamless blend of numerous movie genres , this audacious film is part space adventure , part combat movie , part newsreel footage , part romance and part military recruitment film . the beauty of the picture is that the script by edward neumeier , loosely based on the robert a . heinlein novel , never takes itself seriously . although full of the realistic gore of any war , the tone of the picture is upbeat , and jost vacano's cinematography and allan cameron's sets are bright and cheerful . watching the film is just flat-out fun . this conglomeration of excessive beauty is one of the film's many jokes -- sort of fraternity brothers and sorority sisters go to war . all of the actors in the movie are so likable and are having so much fun blasting bugs that their excitement become infectious . the energy level and the enthusiasm for these young warriors was palpable in the audience at my screening . again , the good-spirited fun prevails in this and every scene so that what might normally gross one out doesn't . clancy brown is great as sgt . sgt . zim demonstrates the flaw in that argument by throwing a knife into the kid's hand , pinning it to the wall and thus demonstrating how the kid's finger is now inoperable . the action is hard-edged but the light-hearted tone of the film keeps it from ever becoming oppressive . are you ? " the battle scenes are phenomenal , both for the realistic and clever special effects and for the humor . when the rip-roaring adventure finally ends , you realize that the show had plot holes as big as the bug holes in the movie , but you don't care . you've been fighting a war , and you've won ! it's not the future any longer . starship troopers runs 2 : 09 . it is rated r for sex , nudity , profanity , and gory violence . the film would be fine for most teenagers . 
although ron howard's 1989 film parenthood is a master at the verbal humor , the physical humor has its own special , subtle beauty . never letting us see the pictures , helen laughs in horror as she interrogates julie about how the pictures came to be made . interlaced with the humor is a multigenerational parenthood story . most shows concentrate on the kids , but this show stays true to its title and focuses almost exclusively on parenthood itself , including relationship of adults to their parents . lowell ganz , ron howard and babaloo mandel's intelligent and profoundly wise script manages to be serious and delicious funny at the same time . gil doesn't understand kevin either although he certainly tries harder than his dad did . most films are advised not to include too many featured parts lest none be adequately developed , but director ron howard is one of the few who can and does bring this off . relieved , she takes a charitable view , saying he must be " interested in sex -- or filmmaking . " it's never too soon to get ready for the best universities . the marvelously life-affirming film ends in a massive baby birthing scene with enough joy for every member of the audience . it is rated pg-13 for profanity and sexual humor and situations . the film would be fine for kids 10 and up . 
titantic , writer and director james cameron's much anticipated and sometimes ridiculed $200 , 000 , 000 epic , arrives shortly into the theaters so the question naturally arises , whether the film is worth it ? as a business proposition , it seems hard to see how it can ever break even , but as a movie it is nothing short of wonderful . if you've already neatly categorized it as yet another disaster movie a la volcano or the poseidon adventure , think again . the movie is both a great love story told with the disaster as a backdrop and a portrayal of one of the world's most memorable disasters made real and personal by seeing it through the eyes of two young lovers . in either case , it is filmmaking at its best . when we entered the press screening , my wife asked the publicity rep if there would be an intermission since the film runs three and a quarter hours long . he said no but that the time would go by so fast she'd never notice the length . amazingly , he was right . titanic is one of the few long films that doesn't suffer because of it . although almost all of the movie happens in flashback , one of the engineers shows the elderly rose exactly how the ship was sunk . using a computer simulation , the movie takes the time to explain what will happen later , which adds immensely to making a lucid story out of what would have otherwise been hopelessly confusing . in a classic movie theme , the two parts of the ship , first class and steerage ( third-class ) exist in sharp contrast . the strength of the script is the way it paints the differences between rich and poor without excessive moralizing . never tawdry and rarely explicit , their romance has the power to sweep the audience into the story . leonardo dicaprio in his best performance ever plays jack with confidence and charisma . when he confronts cal , for example , he remains composed and polite and yet subtly undermines every one of cal's supercilious put-downs . kate winslet gives a wonderfully captivating performance as young rose . the chemistry between these two academy award nominees , him for what's eating gilbert grape and her for sense and sensibility , is nothing short of astonishing . if the film breaks after an hour and a half , which is how long cameron wisely waits to have the iceberg show up , you will still get one of the best films of the year . peter lamont's sets are more than authentic . it then shifts to the ship's massive gears and then to the bright-hot boiler room filled with sweating muscular men shoveling in the coals . easily the most fascinating part of the story is what happens after the iceberg hits and before the battle with the water begins in earnest . at first , since the iceberg tears a series of little gashes in the hull , not some big gaping hole , the passengers view the hit as more of curiosity than anything else . what a lark . we've struck an iceberg . their civility borders on insanity , but it is touching nevertheless . the story is so rich that my description has merely touched the surface . there are more than enough characters to love and to hate , and all of the casting is dead-on . special effects work best when their presence becomes almost undetectable . people are flung like ants either into the water to be shortly frozen to death or into other parts of the ship to be crushed immediately . besides being romantic and dramatic , the script includes liberal doses of humor . from the many deliciously subtle verbal put-downs to the physical comedy , as when jack teaches rose to spit like a man , the show elicits laughter in addition to perhaps a few tears . basically there was a design decision to have fewer than half of the necessary life boats -- it made the decks look too crowded otherwise . perhaps the sinking is best summarized by one of the guggenheim's on-board the ship . " no thanks , " the elegantly attired guggenheim replies . " we're dressed in our best and would prefer to go down like gentlemen . but we would like a brandy . " it is rated pg-13 for tastefully and delicately presented sex and nudity and would be fine for kids twelve and up . 
the sweet hereafter could serve as a textbook example of the difference between television movies and " real " movies . top-flight writer and director atom egoyan delivers instead a film with tremendous power whose most notable trait is its touching subtlety . based on a respected book of the same name by author russell banks , the movie represents a rethinking of the story's structure , not merely a literal adaptation of the novel . told in linear form by four narrators in the book , egoyan's version happens instead in overlapping time sequences and without a narrator . periodically throughout the picture , nicole's readings are heard in voice-over . you have never heard this moving poem read so sweetly or in such an appropriate moment . they and the rest of the town's children come into harm's way -- some live and others are seriously injured . although the physical damage is inflicted mainly on the children , the adults bear the emotional scars of the loss . ian holm , in arguably the best performance of his distinguished career , plays mitchell stephens , an intense man of quiet misery . if this seems crass , well it is , but mitchell approaches his job with the dedication of a religious zealot . each little aspect has its own fascination . his confessions to rita about his feelings of loss are one of the many heartfelt outpourings in the story . the accident itself , a simple one of a bus hitting a patch of ice , isn't shown until the middle of the picture , but , nevertheless , the mystery about it builds throughout the film . although the picture is no detective story , finding out exactly what happened is a subtheme in a movie that is primarily a character study of a town gripped by tragedy . mitchell's pitch is never an easy one and worrying about zoe only makes it harder . ) mychael danna's haunting music sets the stage for tragedy . the cinematography by paul sarossy is sweeping in its outdoor grandeur , but it is in the warm , shadowy , intimate moments indoors where it works best . the show , which is ripe for emotional manipulation , never plays with its audience . still , when the house lights go up , you may feel as i did . i could barely breathe ; i was so overcome by the sum total of what i had witnessed . more than anything , the film is like a master painting . each cinematic brush stroke is carefully laid down by egoyan with the beauty building with each dollop of paint . with the final color in place , the masterpiece is complete , and the ending credits roll . the sweet hereafter runs 1 : 50 . it is rated r for mature themes , sexuality and some profanity and would be fine teenagers . 
goldfinger has rightfully been called the best bond movie that was ever made . this film brings it all together perfectly . it has an intriguing and ingenious plot , fascinating gadgets , beautiful women , handsome men , lush scenery , great music , well paced action , and a certain indescribable magic . if spy-action films ever had a classic , then this is it . but best of all is the hidden ejector button . if his passenger is too talkative or otherwise disagreeable , all bond needs do is push a little button and his companion shoots straight up and out of the car permanently . as the non-talking oddjob , harold sakata plays a man with a body stronger than steel and a hat that appears to made of it . and , of course , who could ever forget any character who goes modestly by the name of pussy galore . what is surprising is that pussy is played by honor blackman , the first female lead on " the avengers , " not as an airhead but as one of the smarter characters in the movie . this time the gorgeous and exotic locales include the lush kentucky bluegrass country and the snow capped majesty of the swiss alps . although the alps are the more striking of the two , kentucky looks especially lovely . bond's overriding rule has to do less with his assignments than his libido . whenever a pretty woman appears , he always arranges for an extension in his schedule so he will have time for a roll in the hay -- which he does literally in a scene with pussy galore . bond sex is a special movie style . it consists of a quick but intense kiss followed by a cutaway to later . the sex is hinted at with cute puns and sexual innuendo , but never discussed explicitly . this produces enough titillation for the adults in the audience but stays harmless enough for the younger ones as well . few movies these days ( except bond pictures ) even attempt this style . " do you expect me to talk ? " " no , " goldfinger laughs . " i expect you to die ! " goldfinger runs 1 : 52 . it is rated pg for violence and sexual innuendo and would be fine for kids around nine and up . my son jeffrey , almost 9 , liked the movie a lot , especially the car and the gadgets . no better than either of them . 
the defiant ones received academy awards for sam leavitt's moody cinematography with its sharp whites and gloomy grays and for harold jacob smith and nedrick young's crisp but powerful screenplay . the chase , although interesting , plays out on a minor stage with the dialog within the two groups taking center stage . in contrast to today's films , where the word " nigger " is thrown about as if it means nothing more than any other profanity , this movie treats it with the contempt it deserves . in their first verbal encounter in the picture , joker uses the word nigger to refer to noah . you call me that again , and i'll kill you ! " sheriff max muller , played in an oscar nominated performance by theodore bikel , says with disgust , " the warden's got a sense of humor . " and he's not far off . at this point jail begins to look pretty inviting . kramer stages the scenes with such simplistic power that he gives the outdoors almost the look of a stage play -- all the better to focus the audience's attention on the words in the two dramas at hand . he shoots in tight close-ups to draw the audience into the story . with two superb performances and palpable tension , the film has a strength that rises above the simplicity of the storyline . as siamese twins , for example , their inevitable fistfight makes no sense and yet seems perfectly natural . although some scenes become a bit didactic , most have remarkable subtlety . one brief kiss , and the camera cuts away to the next morning . although i would have preferred a more dramatic and surprising ending , kramer stages the inevitable one with efficient precision , and the story seems to wind down rather than ending . but it is in the dialog that the film finds its power anyway and not the drive toward some hokey conclusion . the defiant ones runs a fast 1 : 37 . it is not rated but would be pg-13 for adult themes and a little violence and would be fine for kids around 10 and up . 
most viewers probably suspected that primary colors from the birdcage's collaborative team of director mike nichols and writer elaine may would be a funny comedy , although many may have feared , incorrectly , that it would wallow in caricature and cheap shots . what is so surprising about what has turned out to be the best new movie released thus far this year is that it is so much more that merely funny . nichols and may have produced a veritable laugh riot that manages to move seamlessly from comedy to tragedy to social commentary and back again . an adroit movie that can turn on a dime , it mesmerizes its audiences in the same way that its fictional governor wins the hearts and minds of his audiences . given the subsequent scandals , especially the current ones , the movie borders on being almost frighteningly relevant . starting with close-ups of clinton -- oops , i did it already -- i mean southern governor jack stanton shaking hands , we learn the subtle meanings of his various handshakes . as governor stanton , a beefed up john travolta gives a creepily accurate portrayal . the irony is that they have no hope of attaining perfection , but they are both such superlative political operatives that neither needs it . amidst all the hullabaloo of the campaign are quieter moments of delicate power . in easily the best performance in the picture , sling blade's billy bob thornton plays the role of firebrand , redneck richard jemmons , modeled after james carville . billy bob manages to make the frequently obnoxious carville into a likable , albeit outrageous , political operative par excellence . one hopes members of the academy will remember billy bob's performance when it comes time next year to vote for supporting actors . the picture is so funny at times that you may have trouble controlling yourself , jack and richard's " mamathon " being one of the rib-ticklingest . " how else can i learn ? " replies the ultra-savvy woman with beautifully fake naivete . almost like sparring boxers , nichols and may seem to try to outdo each other in their collaboration . may , for example , comes up with a wonderfully complicated conundrum for richard . almost all of richard's hilarious lines in the movie are unprintable although one particular astute one isn't . " from now on you can call me the 'dust buster , ' " libby explains her role . " i'm stronger than dirt . " if you've ever had doubts about the depth of his acting abilities , wait until his last scene , which is stunning . " i'm going to tell you the truth . " in a career in which his veracity always remains subservient to winning , this could indeed be considered outrageous . since the movie is just a time slice from a long campaign , choosing how to end it is tricky . the choice they made involves setting before the stantons a moral test that serves as kind of a metaphor for the stantons' political careers . like the ending of the titanic , the outcome of their moral test is never really in question . primary colors runs 2 : 20 but feels much shorter . it is rated r for profanity and sexual references and would be fine for teenagers . 
you've suspected for sometime now that your life isn't real . all those objects that dot your environment are just elaborate facades , and those people around you , who claim to be your friends , are merely actors in some vast drama of undecipherable portent . although i can't be sure about you , this is exactly what happened to the unsuspecting truman burbank . truman is played brilliantly by jim carrey in a dramatic role with sporadic comedic touches . in the most promising plot for a movie in a long time , the truman show is about a human being who , since birth , has been the subject of a 24-hour-a-day cable show - the world's most popular soap opera or television series of any kind . " nothing you see here on this show is fake . it's just controlled . " directed with absolute precision by the year of living dangerously's peter weir , and written smartly by gattaca's andrew niccol , the truman show is that rare breed , the movie that borrows from other sources and yet comes up with something so fresh and innovative that it has to be seen to be fully appreciated . it has some of the look and feel of the television show , " the prisoner , " and some of the scenes , especially the " backstage " ones , will remind you of disney's magic kingdom , but the movie itself is one of a kind . with dennis gassner's pristine sets of bright whites that would put normal rockwell to shame and with an inviting score by philip glass , the picture is a feast for the eyes and ears . the cinematographer uses bright primary colors to give the film the two-dimensional realism of an andy warhol painting . " the last thing i'd ever do is lie to you , " marlon tells him with absolute sincerity . a moving show , it considers a host of issues , not the least of which is what it means to be a friend . just because marlon's an actor and he's told what to do , does that lessen the benefit of his companionship ? in a movie so rich that it deserves a second or even third viewing , watch carefully how truman eventually discovers that their vows may be in question . carrey , in one of his most subtle performances , provides a likeable hero with whom we can empathize . t-shirts -- are pulling all of the strings . they can cue the sun , set off dramatic storms and have the actors say or do anything they like . like a video aquarium , the show , which keeps the camera on truman even as he sleeps , provides comfort to the insomniacs all over the planet . " it's as simple as that . " if you think modern movies are blatant in their product placements , this television show puts them all to shame . " how will it end ? " how indeed ? the absolutely riveting story has both ( television and movie ) audiences on the edge of their seats wondering . staged brilliantly , the ending wraps up a masterful show perfectly . it is rated pg for a few mild profanities . the film would be acceptable for all ages , but kids probably need to be around nine to understand and appreciate it . my son jeffrey , almost 9 , thought is was " a pretty good movie . " ( this was the most complicated and subtle movie that he's ever seen and liked . 
with sagacity and determination , tom has much to teach the equine and human characters in this delicate drama . robert redford , whose only oscar was for his direction of the brilliant and devastating ordinary people from 1980 , accepts the challenge of directing himself in the starring role in the horse whisperer . quite unlike what passes for drama today , the horse whisperer contains deeply felt and complex emotions but without shouting or profanity . coming in at just under three hours - redford's first cut was close to four , the movie so mesmerizes you that your only complaint is likely to be that you wish it were longer . as robert , character actor sam neill imbues the role with just the right mixture of bland but genuine allegiance to his family . " am i being too polite here ? " he asks . " does 'no' in montana mean 'yes' where you are ? " richardson is even better with the close-ups than the sweeping vistas . the intricate raindrops on the windshield are one of the many little treats he serves up for us . " do they have any signs around here ? " " what would they say ? " although the script does have these occasional bits of humor , it is in the wisdom , in the character development and - yes , redford fans - in the romance where it is most compelling . with his ruggedly handsome face that speaks of many never-to-be-told mysteries , redford is an actor for every generation . his little smile is guaranteed to win every heart in the audience in an instant . " saying it out loud is the hard part . " i fell head over heels in love with this powerful but subtle movie . and audiences may again become infatuated with the 61-year-old redford , proving that age makes no difference when it comes to love . it is rated pg-13 for one disturbing accident scene and would be fine for kids around 10 and up . 
- so we rented the classic judy garland version from 1939 . beautifully directed by victor fleming , who won the award that year for best director , but for gone with the wind , the wizard of oz is so exquisitely constructed that it's hard to believe that it could have been done any other way . but there were scenes deleted , including a jitterbug number , and others that were almost excised , including the key " over the rainbow " number . the cast , which seems etched in stone now like a cinematic mount rushmore , was not exactly what the studio wanted . opening to a bleak kansas landscape , filmed in a nostalgic , sepiatone black-and-white , dorothy wants to be anywhere but boring old home . after a long dream sequence that bursts forth in bright primary colors and imaginative sets , the story ends in that same monotone kansas that it began but with dorothy wanting never to leave home again . just as the mythical sets for oz are not meant to be real , so the sets for the kansas farm are so obviously done on a sound stage that they too have a poetic realism that transcends the literal . most " family " pictures aren't . at best they are kids' movies that keep the adults' attention with sufficient humor aimed at them . with judy garland as dorothy , frank morgan as the wizard ( as well as many other roles ) , ray bolger as the scarecrow , bert lahr as the cowardly lion and jack haley as the tin woodman , the ensemble cast never ceases to delight and amaze us . every scene brings some new joy or gem of wisdom such as the " brainless " tin woodman's observation that " some people without brains do an awful lot of talking . " " and she's not only merely dead , she's really most sincerely dead . " the dialog that is spoken rather than sung still has almost a musical cadence and is always just short of poetry . the music is so infectiously happy that it is basically impossible to keep your toes from tapping , your head from bobbing , and an ear-to-ear grin from appearing on your face . the movie is perhaps best epitomized in dorothy's dance as she leaves the cute little munchkins . if we could enter the screen , every member of the audience would skip right along behind her . it is rated g and is perfect for all ages . my son jeffrey , age 9 , gave the movie * * * * and said it was wonderful . he said that " you can't grow too old for this movie . " 
a few jumped into the sea only to be shot underwater while attempting to remove their heavy packs . as the wise captain john miller , the man whose unit has almost vanished , tom hanks gives the most reserved performance of his career - reserved , but no less brilliant . why this is a mystery is a mystery in itself . mild mannered but self-assured john miller doesn't look like a man who would want or need to hide his past . saving private ryan is director steven spielberg's best film since schindler's list . a moving war picture that takes neither an overly pacifist nor patriotic approach , it avoids shameless manipulation of the audience's emotions . the war itself is shown so realistically that the reaction of many viewers may be similar to mine . i wanted to go to a private corner and cry my eyes out after the movie finished . they argue that they have mothers too . john william's heroic music for the film is sweeping in its grandeur , yet never overwhelms the more delicate moments . schindler's list's academy award winning cinematographer janusz kaminski is as good in the intimate moments as the dramatic ones . finally , kaminski uses the handheld camera to good effect during the battle sequences . as it bounces up and down , you can feel the jitters of the fighting men , and the chaos of the battle . between scenes that take your breath away , robert rodat's script is smart enough to throw in a little much-needed humor . watching men necessarily reduced to animals fighting for survival may be hard to watch , but this film of spielberg's is movie making at its best . it is an experience sometimes hard to endure but not to be missed . it is rated r for profanity and strong violence and would be fine for mature teenagers . 
and the winner of the best picture that year , as well as well as seven other oscars , was gone with the wind . easily one of the best motion pictures ever made , it has been restored and released to the theaters . the print is clean and handsome , the digitally remastered sound is strong and clear and this time they are showing all of the movie . to make the movie look more modern , the last few times it has been released in wide-screen by chopping off the top and bottom . this time it is being distributed in the 4 : 3 aspect ratio of the original release . the epic motion picture is part romance , part history , part character study and part the world's most popular soap opera . our packed audience treated the film almost reverentially . as the fickle but resilient scarlett , vivien leigh gives a tour de force performance . " if i hear one more word about war , i'll run in the house and slam the door ! " her world of fancy balls and bbqs will not countenance any such intrusion , even if the first shots of the civil war have already been fired . the intense foreboding of this outwardly happy scene makes it arguably the movie's most moving . chips , has a ball playing rhett butler , the story's loveable rapscallion . with his hearty laugh and his sneer of a grin , rhett is a natural charmer without trying to be so . " we're bad lots , both of us - selfish and shrewd , " he tells her in a succinct summation of their characters . butterfly mcqueen is hilarious as the comically incompetent slave , prissy . ( " miss scarlett , i don't know nothing about birthing no babies ! " ) but it is hattie mcdaniel as mammy , scarlett's rock of gibraltar , who delivers the strongest performance as a slave and later a servant . hattie deservedly won the best supporting actress that year , beating out de havilland , whose performance was superlative . " you can do without a reputation . " ) the artistic aspects of the film's production are as stunning as its acting . the oscar-winning cinematography by ernest haller and ray rennahan added to the vastness of the picture . shooting outdoors with heavy emphasis on silhouettes set against rust-colored evening skies or orange-hued burning cities , they created a tableaux so expansive as to make audience's mouths drop . max steiner's nostalgic music , which lost the oscar to the even better score of the wizard of oz , is as moving as it is memorable . the only problem with the picture is that it could have used a little judicious pruning . the international travel sequences , for example , add little . gone with the wind is a picture deserving of a restoration every decade . see it , if you can , in a theater . in fact , see all of the classics , if you can , in a theatrical setting . television is fine , but classics deserve better for their full appreciation . it is rated g , but with its war violence and frightening images it is inappropriate for most kids under around 8 . and it may not hold any interest for kids under 10 or 11 . my son jeffrey , age 9 , was well behaved through a long movie that he hated . he found it boring and frightening and gave it only * ? . finally , he said that it should have been rated pg . 
and the winner of the best picture that year , as well as well as seven other oscars , was gone with the wind . easily one of the best motion pictures ever made , it has been restored and released to the theaters . the print is clean and handsome , the digitally remastered sound is strong and clear and this time they are showing all of the movie . to make the movie look more modern , the last few times it has been released in wide-screen by chopping off the top and bottom . this time it is being distributed in the 4 : 3 aspect ratio of the original release . the epic motion picture is part romance , part history , part character study and part the world's most popular soap opera . our packed audience treated the film almost reverentially . as the fickle but resilient scarlett , vivien leigh gives a tour de force performance . " if i hear one more word about war , i'll run in the house and slam the door ! " her world of fancy balls and bbqs will not countenance any such intrusion , even if the first shots of the civil war have already been fired . the intense foreboding of this outwardly happy scene makes it arguably the movie's most moving . chips , has a ball playing rhett butler , the story's loveable rapscallion . with his hearty laugh and his sneer of a grin , rhett is a natural charmer without trying to be so . " we're bad lots , both of us - selfish and shrewd , " he tells her in a succinct summation of their characters . butterfly mcqueen is hilarious as the comically incompetent slave , prissy . ( " miss scarlett , i don't know nothing about birthing no babies ! " ) but it is hattie mcdaniel as mammy , scarlett's rock of gibraltar , who delivers the strongest performance as a slave and later a servant . hattie deservedly won the best supporting actress that year , beating out de havilland , whose performance was superlative . " you can do without a reputation . " ) the artistic aspects of the film's production are as stunning as its acting . the oscar-winning cinematography by ernest haller and ray rennahan added to the vastness of the picture . shooting outdoors with heavy emphasis on silhouettes set against rust-colored evening skies or orange-hued burning cities , they created a tableaux so expansive as to make audience's mouths drop . max steiner's nostalgic music , which lost the oscar to the even better score of the wizard of oz , is as moving as it is memorable . the only problem with the picture is that it could have used a little judicious pruning . the international travel sequences , for example , add little . gone with the wind is a picture deserving of a restoration every decade . see it , if you can , in a theater . in fact , see all of the classics , if you can , in a theatrical setting . television is fine , but classics deserve better for their full appreciation . it is rated g , but with its war violence and frightening images it is inappropriate for most kids under around 8 . and it may not hold any interest for kids under 10 or 11 . my son jeffrey , age 9 , was well behaved through a long movie that he hated . he found it boring and frightening and gave it only * ? . finally , he said that it should have been rated pg . 
writer and director gary ross , the writer and creator of big and dave , delights audiences once again with his best fantasy ever in pleasantville . like most teens , they blow all of this off , worrying more about their own popularity at school than the issues of the day . reese witherspoon delivers a dead-on performance as a sarcastic teen , who is aghast to be thrown into the plastic 1950s . the whole first half of the movie , as the kids cope and alter their new environment , is comedy at its best . intelligently written , the film's first part produces such a stream of laughter that you may need a second viewing to catch all the spoken humor and sight gags . breakfast , which is in danger of touching the ceiling , consists of stacks of dozens of pancakes , waffles , and toast . everything , absolutely everything , has always gone perfectly in pleasantville . like most television facades , there are a few things missing , like toilets in the bathroom stalls and words in the books , but the townsfolk don't mind . the movie explores change through the power of reading as well as sex . it is too bad that pleasantville had to come out the same year as the truman show since they will inevitably be compared . next to an almost perfect film like the truman show , pleasantville isn't as quite as good , having many fewer memorable lines for one and lacking the talent of a jim carrey for another , but this should not be allowed to detract from the incredible brilliance of pleasantville . as dazzlingly filmed by john lindley in a gorgeous black and white , the movie slowly develops color in small places like roses and tongues , until it bursts into a bouquet of saturated colors by the end . how and why things turn color is one of the mysteries that the story slowly reveals . at first the reason seems simple and almost trite , and then the complete rationale behind the colorization becomes the story's key turning point . visually it is a stunning technical achievement . once color appears in this innovative film , women's make-up is shown to be able to take on an entirely different role . starting as a hilarious comedy , the story transforms carefully into a serious satire on life's insanities . although it starts off as a romp , the film ends up with more messages than you can count , all of them delivered delicately but powerfully . part science fiction , the story asks the age-old question of what would happen to the future if you could alter the past ? moreover , would the results be what you expect and want ? david worries about this a lot , but jennifer is more interested in freeing the people from their chains and the consequences be damned . the movie contains many great small performances . the story has many surprises . you yell " cat ! " leaves them staring at you . put a bed on display that is twice the width of the standard issue single bed . unheard of . it is rated pg-13 for sexuality , mature themes and some profanity and would be fine for kids 12 and up . 
writer and director gary ross , the writer and creator of big and dave , delights audiences once again with his best fantasy ever in pleasantville . like most teens , they blow all of this off , worrying more about their own popularity at school than the issues of the day . reese witherspoon delivers a dead-on performance as a sarcastic teen , who is aghast to be thrown into the plastic 1950s . the whole first half of the movie , as the kids cope and alter their new environment , is comedy at its best . intelligently written , the film's first part produces such a stream of laughter that you may need a second viewing to catch all the spoken humor and sight gags . breakfast , which is in danger of touching the ceiling , consists of stacks of dozens of pancakes , waffles , and toast . everything , absolutely everything , has always gone perfectly in pleasantville . like most television facades , there are a few things missing , like toilets in the bathroom stalls and words in the books , but the townsfolk don't mind . the movie explores change through the power of reading as well as sex . it is too bad that pleasantville had to come out the same year as the truman show since they will inevitably be compared . next to an almost perfect film like the truman show , pleasantville isn't as quite as good , having many fewer memorable lines for one and lacking the talent of a jim carrey for another , but this should not be allowed to detract from the incredible brilliance of pleasantville . as dazzlingly filmed by john lindley in a gorgeous black and white , the movie slowly develops color in small places like roses and tongues , until it bursts into a bouquet of saturated colors by the end . how and why things turn color is one of the mysteries that the story slowly reveals . at first the reason seems simple and almost trite , and then the complete rationale behind the colorization becomes the story's key turning point . visually it is a stunning technical achievement . once color appears in this innovative film , women's make-up is shown to be able to take on an entirely different role . starting as a hilarious comedy , the story transforms carefully into a serious satire on life's insanities . although it starts off as a romp , the film ends up with more messages than you can count , all of them delivered delicately but powerfully . part science fiction , the story asks the age-old question of what would happen to the future if you could alter the past ? moreover , would the results be what you expect and want ? david worries about this a lot , but jennifer is more interested in freeing the people from their chains and the consequences be damned . the movie contains many great small performances . the story has many surprises . you yell " cat ! " leaves them staring at you . put a bed on display that is twice the width of the standard issue single bed . unheard of . it is rated pg-13 for sexuality , mature themes and some profanity and would be fine for kids 12 and up . 
since citizen kane mysteriously showed up at our local multiplex -- even the manager had no idea why they booked it , i decided to attempt to forget everything i knew about it and to try to look at it as the first viewers might have back in may of 1941 . even the greatest films , and citizen kane is universally considered to be the best or at least one of the best , were once just the latest picture playing at the local bijou . the audience may have known something of the story ahead of time , but they likely did not expect its greatness . oscar wells , then a beaming , fairly trim young man , directed citizen kane , played the starring role and cowrote the script with herman j . mankiewicz . the film's opening has the look of a creepy old gothic horror movie . this eerie tranquility is shattered by the blare of a newsreel . theaters then featured newsreels along with the double feature and the latest installment of some serial . the newsreel in citizen kane , although slightly comical , gave a documentary feel to the production , what we would call a docudrama today . since the movie was a slam at the life and times of william randolph hearst , a fact the audiences then were likely to have heard , the newsreel approach gave the film an immediate intimacy and accessibility . having just weathered the great depression , the viewers were likely to have identified with the film's ridicule of ostentatious wealth . just as the audiences were probably enraged at this waste of money , having recently worked their way back from poverty , they were also quite likely jealous . " it'll probably turn out to be a very simple thing . " this hinted to the viewers that the film wasn't just some elaborate mystery and that they should not feel cheated if rosebud turns out not to be very dramatic after all . audiences now know the answer to the mystery , but then it must have been intriguing . viewers must have had numerous theories since the movie doesn't give any substantial clues until almost the very end . once the secret is revealed , it seems at first to be unimportant , almost trivial . upon closer reflection , the importance that kane attaches to it is a key to understanding his character or what we today would call the inner child . the radical cinematography by gregg toland must have shocked the audiences then as it mesmerized them with its offbeat angles , dramatic lighting and stark use of shadows and silhouettes . the seamless editing by mark robson and robert wise , who would go on to become a great director , moves forward and backward in time without ever losing continuity . filled with intriguing layers , the story of kane's life becomes an onion that the movie keeps peeling . " if the headline is big enough , it makes the news bigger , " kane says , knowing then the power of the press to make news when before there was just a tiny , inconsequential story . with today's tabloids being so prevalent this would be a line seemingly more tailored to today's viewers . the movie shows this transformation with great finesse . the best-staged sequence in the movie may be the breakfast table conversations with his first wife . within just a few minutes we watch kane's marriage going from puppy love to bitterness to death as the couple refuses to talk . as a politician , he is an old-fashioned , moneyed liberal who rails about giving the little people a voice . that is certainly something easier for audiences to understand then as opposed to now . citizen kane has so much to recommend it that it is hard to guess how the first audiences must have felt . maybe they felt as we do today , in awe of having witnessed a masterpiece while realizing how incredibly entertaining it was . it is not rated but would be pg for mature themes and would be fine for any kid old enough to care to see it . 
the movie delightfully mixes the romance and fighting of the play with some equally high-spirited antics off stage . the dialog from the play works its way into the scenes outside of the theater . " no , we haven't the time , talk prose , " philip says , interrupting him . it is the small details that separate great films from lesser ones , and it is here that shakespeare in love proves its mettle . the hilarious auditions and rehearsals are both insightful and humorous . the acting talent from which will has to choose is not all top drawer . in a perfect bit of casting , gwyneth paltrow , in clearly the best performance of her career , plays viola , a rich but untitled young woman . in the film's long romantic middle section , which nicely mirrors the middle of the play they are rehearsing , viola and will are so much in love that they have trouble keeping their hands and lips off of each other . these sensuous sequences make the picture one of the best date movies of the year . the film has as many subplots as a shakespearean play but manages to develop them well and still stay within the time limitations of a traditional length motion picture . brown ) plays a different queen this time , elizabeth i . the movie ends with the production of the play and some last minute role changes . the movie uses the words of the play to suggest meanings for the actors on and off stage . " o , i am fortune's fool ! " will says aptly . the script will sweep you away . the movie is for lovers , for students , for budding actors , for connoisseurs of fine comedy , and for just about everyone . it is rated r for sex and nudity and would be fine for teenagers . 
no , he's not talking about the year 2000 software problem . in director john boorman's classic 1972 film , lewis is generally weary of everything electrical and mechanical . before the movie he spoke about its filming , telling us how physically exhausting the shoot was . they made a decision to film all of the river scenes only on overcast days , so they could get just the right threatening look that they wanted . sometimes they had to wait for hours for a little cloud to block out the sun before they could roll the cameras . in addition they used long lenses which magnified the effect of the speed and the action , thus intensifying the drama . this hauntingly tranquil banjo music will reappear periodically during the movie as will scenes of the placid sections of the river . and there will be peaceful shots of roaring campfires and of the river at twilight , all to provide sharp contrast to the horror of their journey . when things first go just slightly wrong , ed suggests that they play golf instead of taking the canoeing vacation -- advice that they will all wish that they had taken . " i think downstream would be best , don't you ? " quips lewis . having zsigmond present at the screening made us more conscious than normal about the cinematography . even though we were watching a washed out , old print , the brilliance of his techniques were still easy to recognize . consider just two examples . the viscerally gripping film , which begins with a foreboding peace , ends with a frightening one . all appears well , but it isn't and never will be for the men who survive . it is rated r for intense violence , graphic gore and rape and should be considered nc-17 , a rating that they did not have at the time of the movie's release . 
in the lovers of the arctic circle , a stunning picture with a plethora of magical images , the paper airplane scene is among the most memorable . we watch their flight as they glide effortlessly through the air . we see the only one that makes it to her courtyard perfectly framed by a circle in the iron gate . written and directed by julio medem , the movie is easily one of the most poetic movies in some time . the images captured by cinematographer gonzalo berridi are as breathtaking in the intimate moments as in the grand . one time-lapsed sequence filmed over a lake in lapland during the time of the midnight sun will take your breath away . using the aphorism that silence is golden , the director stages their first liaison more with subtle images than words . this is the sort of reverential look at sexuality rarely found in american films , especially those dealing with teens . the story explores this circularity of life with some strategically placed movements forward and backward in time to illustrate the ties our past have with our present . the delicate beauty of the narrative is enhanced by the way the filmmaker doesn't feel the need to explain everything and leaves some key scenes purposely ambiguous . in a film that is so much more than just the sum of its parts , its parts are pretty impressive in themselves . the casting and the acting , especially tricky with a story that spans three sets of ages , are wonderful . alberto iglesias's music has a haunting lyricism . and the dialog possesses a simple beauty . the mesmerizing film so transfixes the audience that you feel you are engulfed in the picture . it is more than a mere movie and becomes almost a spiritual experience . bursting with memorable images , the movie's strength can be witnessed in the perfect ways the transitions between scenes are handled . and as in the rest of this carefully constructed film of delicate intricacy , these two scenes have many links , only some of which are immediately apparent . a film for the mind as well as the heart , the lovers of the arctic circle has only one significant fault . it ends . the lovers of the arctic circle runs 1 : 52 . the film's sparse dialog is in spanish with english subtitles . it is rated r for brief nudity , sexuality and mature themes and would be fine for teenagers . 
so what kind of a man was harry lime ? director carol reed's classic the third man has just been restored and is in the process of being re-released theatrically . now , with the restoration of the 11 minutes of footage trimmed from the american release by producer david o . selznick , we can see the film as continental audiences first saw it . not having seen the movie in what seems like a zillion years , but which must be less than 50 since the film originally came out in 1949 , i was able to look at it again with few preconceived notions . set in a post-world-war-ii vienna , the picture does a masterful job of recreating an era of complex politics and a city picking itself up from the ashes . in the story by graham greene and alexander korda , the ambiguous characters perfectly match robert krasker's heavily shadowed black-and-white cinematography . the characters' exact intentions and motivations are up for discussion . seeing the movie again after all these years , i was struck by several things . although harry lime is the central character , wells has a remarkably small part . his first appearance in the movie has a power and a charm that makes it one of the most endearing scenes in cinematic history . with its dominant austrian zither music , the film serves notice that it doesn't intend to fit neatly into any genre . the music is whimsical , mysterious and sometimes even a little sad . every time you start to ponder a situation seriously , the music comes up to suggest that things may not be quite what they seem . and it warns us not to take things too seriously . the writers seem to be just off camera , laughing with little in-jokes that they alone understand . the scene in the ferris wheel , in which harry draws a heart on the glass , is one such moment . how is it to be taken ? the writers seem to enjoy toying with us . the overwhelming emotion on seeing it again is to realize how the picture works best on a visual and a musical level . one could imagine doing away with all of the dialog and relying on the pictures and the music alone . actually , the only truly memorable line is harry's reflection to holly . space operas aside , one wonders which films of today will still be popular 50 years from now . this simple question is harder than it might appear since it involves not only artistic merit but also changing opinions . while waiting for the mid-twenty-first century's official classics list , go enjoy some of the sure winners now , like the third man , especially if you're lucky enough to have it playing theatrically in your area . it is rated pg for mature themes and would be fine for any kid old enough to be interested , which probably means around 12 and up . 
" i'm 42 years old , and in less than a year i'll be dead , " begins kevin spacey , in narration in american beauty , as the despondent lester burnham , a man with a family who loathes him , and vice versa . " of course , i didn't know that yet . " even though you know he's going to die , how and why remain a complete mystery until the end -- there are many possibilities in this black comedy . as written with biting wit by alan ball and directed with a deft touch by sam mendes , the mystery is only a small part of the story . the film's many rewards include a darkly sardonic script , which is extremely funny , and an examination of middle age and teenage angst , which will likely strike several chords with everyone in the audience . we've had films about dysfunctional families , but this movie is about people with dysfunctional lives . " honey , i watched very clearly , " she says in an off-putting remark . " you didn't screw up once . " " you can't count on anyone but yourself , " carolyn reveals as life's one commandment . he's as full of advice and bluster as someone on a late-night infomercial . " call me crazy , " he says meaning , of course , that he thinks he isn't , " but to be a success one must project an image of success at all times . " the movie has more good scenes that one can count . the dining table sequences are the best since those in citizen kane . it's easy to empathize with many of his responses to life . an engrossing satire for most of the movie , it reaches for the stars in the more dramatic last act . this final part gets under your skin so deeply that you realize that this is no mere comedy , but something much deeper and one of the best pictures of the year . kevin spacey's work in the movie is the best film acting that he has ever done . one hopes that , come oscar time , he'll be taking home a best acting statuette to go beside his best supporting one for the usual suspects . it is rated r for strong sexuality , language , violence and drug content and would be fine for teenagers only if they are both older and mature . 
the princess mononoke , an absolutely breathtaking motion picture , could as easily be shown in an art museum as a theater . with stunning images like a paul gauguin painting and with a great mythic story of the type that richard wagner would have loved to use for an opera , the movie leaves you grasping without much luck for adequate words to describe it . although this has been a strong year for ground-breaking animation with the release of the iron giant and tarzan , nothing that has come before it is in the same league as the princess mononoke , an animated film , written and directed by hayao miyazaki . although teenagers and possibly quite-mature preteens will enjoy it , the movie is aimed at adult audiences . generally , environmentalism , however laudable , makes for lifeless and pedantic stories ( the lame jetsons : the movie being one example ) . here , however , the writer imbues the story with such vast portent that it keeps you on the edge of your seat . the central characters are so empathetically written and drawn that you find yourself caring about them passionately . when we first see it , it appears to be an almost formless mass of swirling , flying maggots . the troubled and nuanced expressions on their faces throughout the story suggests part of their pain and suffering as well as their dedication and courage . the complicated tale suggests two sides to most issues . in a serious drama , billy bob thornton , as a good-old-boy warrior named jigo , provides most of the humor with his deliciously cornball aphorisms . that's the way the world is , but i might actually get it . " ) the drawings literally burst with imagination . the mesmerizing film is such a moving and rewarding experience that you should not be surprised if you break out into loud applause at the end . knowing full well that it was a major faux pas , i couldn't help myself at ours . applauding loudly , i , at least , was able to restrain myself from shouting " bravo ! " as well . i wanted to . the princess mononoke runs 2 : 14 , but there's nothing i would cut . the movie is rated pg-13 for images of violence and gore . it would be fine for teenagers , but those 11 or 12 will need to be able to handle the gore to be able to see it . 
together in 1954's rear window -- now being re-released theatrically in a beautifully restored print -- they made one of the world's most beloved movies . the saving grace of his locale is that his large rear window looks out onto a cross section of humanity . stewart's talents can best be seen in his small mannerisms . he has an itch that , because of his cast , he can only scratch through certain contortions . john michael hayes's script , full of delicate sexual innuendo , is quite funny , and hitchcock's staging is cute as well . for his spying jeff uses a telephoto lens large enough to be worthy of a small observatory . with a soft-spoken voice and an alluring presence , she is nothing less than a complete knock-out . perhaps the best part of this most accessible movie is the sound . a cornucopia of city noises and music fill the air , reminding one of a gershwin melody . these and other sounds mix with those of cars , radios and other conversations to form a city symphony of sounds . rear window is a cinematic treasure . you don't want to miss your chance to see this classic on the big screen . if you've only seen the movie on a television screen , there is a lot of texture and activity that you've probably never noticed before . when the picture comes to your area , go immediately . it will probably have a highly limited run at one or two theaters , and , if you procrastinate , you'll miss your opportunity to see something wonderful . rear window runs 1 : 52 . it is rated pg for mature themes and would be fine for kids around 10 and up . 
every once in a while filmmakers make major breakthroughs . in 1995 with toy story , pixar showed us what is possible when stellar computer animation is combined with an equally bright script . this year it's dreamworks' turn as they take clay animation to heights that you would never think possible and come up with a screenplay that's truly worthy of the visuals -- something that disney failed miserably on recently with dinosaurs . in chicken run , a chicken-coop-as-concentration-camp tale , dreamworks takes the animation crown from pixar . it's time for pixar to come up with something as innovative as chicken run to regain the title . and each episode has the birds failing spectacularly and humorously . the movie , which is worth many viewings , takes great care with all of the details . the modeling of every character is a complete delight . my favorites are the beady eyes , but the large , expressive mouths with the big , clunky teeth would be a close second . but then again , their plump torsos are pretty funny too . he doesn't think much of rocky , remarking , " pushy americans , always showing up late for every war . " " it's a positive thing . " eventually , the barnyard dissolves into some of the funniest gallows humor in years . this rousing good tale is up-beat but never saccharine . with enough poignant moments to make the humor work even better and to endear the characters to us , the movie is a completely satisfying and magical experience for young and old . the story is at its best when poking fun at the chicken's foolish bravado . ginger boldly proclaims . it is rated g and would be great for all ages . 
in an expanded " writers-cut " -- director william friedkin was happy with its original edit -- the new version is being marketed as the exorcist : the version you've never seen . the ending has been altered and , so that regan's screams can really stir up the heavens , the original mono soundtrack has been replaced by one in six-track digital stereo . first , let me get this off my chest . i don't enjoy reviewing a film considered " a classic " for whatever reason , since everyone , including those who haven't seen it , typically has already formed strong opinions about it . covering the plot feels redundant and a bit ridiculous . and commenting on it is likely to inflame the prejudices of people who disagree with you . nominated for a supporting oscar , blair was beaten by tatum o'neal , whose performance in paper moon pales in comparison to blair's . with all of the fury of a rabid pit bull , regan torments anyone brave or foolish enough to come into her room . the film releases its terror in carefully controlled doses , which heightens its effective . venturing into regan's room devastates the viewers as much as the priests ( max von sydow and jason miller ) who conduct the rarely used -- so we're told -- catholic rite of exorcism . the movie's most famous scenes -- regan's head doing a 360 , her masturbating with a crucifix and her using projectile vomit like a venom spitting dinosaur -- are scary , gross and shocking . just imagine how audiences must have felt in the much more cinematically sheltered times of the early 1970s . so does this film deserve its normally associated sobriquet of " the scariest movie ever made ? " perhaps . as one who found the blair witch project lame and tame , i have a high tolerance for shock . i don't know if the exorcist is the most frightening ever , but it would certainly rank high on most people's fear scale . and , maybe most shocking of all , i've never seen the film before other than a few excerpts . when it was originally released , i believed its detractors and avoided the film entirely . a bad move , which i have now corrected . it is rated r for strong language and disturbing images and would be acceptable for those 17 and over . 
but , in the contender , the extremely impressive second feature film by writer and director rod lurie ( deterrence ) , there is at least one politician for whom principles are more important than politics , even if her integrity costs her the honor of being the nation's first female vice president . speaking of honors , expect to see this political thriller and morality tale garner many well deserved oscar nominations including , but not limited to , best actress ( joan allen ) and best supporting actor ( gary oldman ) . " principles only mean something if you stick to them when it's inconvenient , " she explains with utter sincerity . allen , in a consistently strong performance , never lets senator hanson dissolve into self-righteousness . she gives a sympathetic performance that doesn't require sympathy to admire . but it's more than that . the sharply written script mixes heavy drama with sweet comedy . it's a great life , and he's making the most of it . bridges's charismatic performance is full of nuances and subtlety that leaves us never quite sure of his motivations . surprisingly , the president brushes his candidacy aside , claiming that someone might decide that his heroism was actually another chappaquidick episode . the congressman is at once utterly polite and completely devious . no matter how unlikable runyon becomes , oldman never lets him dissolve into caricature . she wants to talk nothing but policy at her hearings -- the usual liberal litany of ban all handguns , abolish the death penalty and guarantee a woman's right to choose . all of the casting in this ensemble effort is terrific . lurie's staging is masterful , even if sometimes a bit over the top . the beauty of the story is that we keep waiting for more shoes to drop . some of them do , but others we expect to , don't . and still others drop , but turn out not to be what we expect . my only complaint is that one key twist is needlessly telegraphed . the movie itself is no enigma . its principles are crystal clear and dramatically demonstrated . the contender is all the president's men for our time . it is rated r for strong sexual content and language and would be fine for most teenagers . 
this is spinal tap , the original mockumentary being re-released to theaters and with a new dvd out , has been called one of the funniest movies ever made , an accolade with which i wouldn't argue . still , it has a wonderfully droll sense of humor that may not appeal to everyone . audiences at the film's initial test screens back in the early 1980s were quite negative . they didn't understand that the film was satirizing rock documentaries , so they complained that the filmmakers should have found a better band or a less obscure one . of course , the band , which mimics bad-boy groups like kiss , is a fictional one , not an obscure one , and it is supposed to be awful . directed by rob reiner , who plays fictional documentarian marty dibergi , this is spinal tap is a deliciously witty comedy that mocks the world of rock . the entire film is an ensemble piece with a terrific supporting cast which includes billy crystal , as a loquacious mime , and fran drescher , as a pompous party hostess . guest , of course , went on to become the king of mockumentaries as the writer and director of waiting for guffman as well as his most recent effort , the marvelously funny best in show . this is spinal tap includes some hokey old black-and-white television clips of the band when they were just a bunch of dorky boys with bowl haircuts , light-years from their current long-haired sophistication . and so forth . ( i saw the movie at a theater across the street from a restaurant called " original joe's , " but let's not go down that path . ) the beauty of the acting is the way everyone treats the story with deadpan seriousness . when shown music critics' reviews of their work that include words like " ponderous , " " pretentious " and much worse , their only reaction is that their detractors are just " nit-picking . " in a film this funny it is hard to pick out favorite parts , but two have become comedy classics . marty tries to point out the logical flaws of this to nigel , but he might as well have been talking to the proverbial wall . calmly and earnestly , david tells marty , " dozens of people spontaneously combust every year , it's just not widely reported . " quite a science lesson . it's too bad they didn't make a sequel . it could have been even bigger and " better " than " springtime for hitler " from the producers . it is rated r for language and would be fine for teenagers . 
ran , for its 15th anniversary , is being re-released to theaters with a stunning new print . set in 16th century feudal japan , the movie takes its title from the japanese word for " chaos " or " turmoil . " this is just the start of many cataclysmic rifts in the family . in contrast to the brash but honest fool , taro's wife , lady kaede ( mieko harada ) , is the most duplicitous and malevolent in a story which has no lack of villains . not a time of subtle leadership , the rulers , particularly the great lord , bark out their orders with such confidence and authority that they seem to be speaking to their entire kingdoms without aid of electronic amplification or transmission . extensive use of natural sounds and picturesque landscapes offers us a serenity that is soon shattered . heavy use of dramatic music made with flute and drums signals the story's shift from the merely argumentative family squabbles to the terror that each side will unleash to crush the other . magnificent blood reds and royal golds are used on toru takemitsu's oscar winning costumes . one of the most visually striking movies ever , ran had the bad luck to be released in the same year as out of africa , which beat it at oscar time for best set decoration , cinematography and direction . i loved out of africa , but each of these awards should have gone instead to another nominee that year , ran . visually and musically audacious , the movie's breathtaking images and sounds would suffice to tell the story . the dialog and incredible acting are icing on an already delicious cake . of course , one could make an argument that it is the look and music that enhances the acting . characters stand frozen at times and silence fills the theater as we contemplate the next actions . the tragedy , told with grand opera flourishes , is at once intimate and epic . the story flags a bit toward the end and a little judicious trimming would have improved it a bit , but that's a minor quibble . " we are truly in hell , " one is heard to say . true , but what a devastatingly gorgeous hell . the film is in japanese with english subtitles . it is rated r for graphic war violence and would be acceptable for older teenagers . 
it is an audacious film that will certainly win an academy award nomination for ellen burstyn , who plays sara . and if there were any justice in the world , it would win one for aronofsky as well . this movie , however , is the complete antithesis of a hollywood production and so has little chance of being recognized with best picture or best director nominations . easily the most visually audacious movie of the year , its camerawork ( matthew libatique ) and editing ( jay rabinowitz ) are astounding . approximating the effects of drugs on the brain , sometimes the film speeds up like a bullet train , and other times the action slows to a crawl . especially effective are the close-up images of everything from drug preparation to pupil dilation to paper airplanes . the director makes just the right choice in minimizing the surrealistic scenes in favor of speeding up the realistic ones . >from the first frame , the director comes out swinging . the film doesn't really start , per se . we feel much like viewers who have just turned on in the middle of a television series . even if burstyn's acting is the best of the bunch , all of the leads deliver probably the best performances of their careers . its big rules on its road to nirvana include no red meat and no refined sugar . as the four of them descend into their own hells , it is hard to watch but impossible to look away . caring deeply about each of the characters , we would no more turn away from them than we would a loved one . when the ending credits come , your audience will probably be like mine . no one moved or breathed . we were all frozen in our seats . it is not rated but would be nc-17 for drug usage , graphic images , nudity , sex and language and would be acceptable for college students and older . 
cast away , which brings together forrest gump's team of star tom hanks and director robert zemeckis , is nothing less than the best movie of the year . and with tremendous poignancy and honesty , tom hanks delivers the best performance of the year . a harrowing and deeply moving story , it is the scariest movie in years , not in a manipulative or artificial way but with incidents of genuine beauty and terror . when you're not on the edge of your seat , you'll be jumping off of it . but it is a rewarding film , not some cheap thrill , that makes you rethink what's important in life as well as how hard basic survival can be . hunt , who seems to be in every recent film , is an actress of whom you can never get enough . the role could easily have been a throwaway since this is essentially a one man picture . well , there is also a volleyball , but more on that later . i've been in an airplane that went into freefall , and there is no more frightening experience . our plane pulled out in time , but chuck's didn't . the airline disaster is the first of many times that you'll be gripping yourself , your armrest , your companion or all three . don't be surprised if you scream . this , however , is far from the last such experience that you will have while watching cast away . self-administered dentistry and simple injuries will be others . even zemeckis's recent what lies beneath isn't nearly as frightening as cast away because the former film was just a movie whereas cast away plays more like real life . foraging for food and trying to create a fire prove much harder than you might suspect . if you've foolishly harbored any doubts whatsoever about hanks's acting ability , this movie will remove them . while we are on the island , zemeckis lets no background music spoil the feeling of being alone in nature . a serious movie , it does provide some comedic flourishes to make it less difficult to watch . but to the writer's credit , he manages to make the end almost as gripping and successful as the rest of the picture . only in the unnecessary proclivity to too neatly tie up loose ends in the last scene or two does the movie ever fail us . if they ever release a five hour director's cut of the movie , i'm there . it's that kind of story . it could not be more absorbing . we'd love to know more . cast away runs 2 : 23 but feels shorter . it is rated pg-13 for intense action sequences and some disturbing images . it would be acceptable for teenagers , but the movie is likely to frighten most viewers regardless of age . 
twenty-two years after francis ford coppola finished his masterpiece , apocalypse now , he has recut the film , adding in almost an extra hour of footage into a new version titled apocalypse now redux . although it runs over three-and-a-quarter hours , it feels shorter than your average hour and a half movie . it is so mesmerizing that i kept forgetting to shift in my seat , causing posterior to start to hurt . the genius of the film comes almost as much from sheen as coppola . in particular , sheen's intimate , diary-like narration is the best part of the movie . the film's script is by john milius and francis ford coppola , inspired by joseph conrad's novel heart of darkness . ( the film's title appears only in graffiti , very late in the film . there are absolutely no opening credits . ) after this , lucas adds , " you understand , captain , that this mission does not exist nor will it ever exist . " is it just politics ? he's also a huge surfing fan . one of the film's most impressive visuals is of kilgore's air cavalry helicopters coming in to bomb and strafe a village . with sweeping vistas , incredible sound effects and dramatic music and with soldiers seen frequently in mud , blood , sweat and war paint , coppola paints a surrealistic view of the war from realistic parts . this is in contrast to another brilliant war movie , saving private ryan , which spielberg made equally horrifying using photorealism . it comes off sadly touching . willard keeps encountering leaderless troops , which can be viewed as a metaphor for the vietnam war itself . keep an eye out for coppola in a cameo . the question for reviewers is whether to evaluate apocalypse now redux on its own or compare it to the original . since it has been too long since i've seen the original , i'll evaluate it on its own . it's an incredible film and a classic , but it's not quite perfect . a lot less of brando would have been better , and the film's last act isn't as good as the rest of the picture . but still it is an amazing achievement worth many viewings . whatever you do , don't pass on the probably brief opportunity to see apocalypse now redux on the big screen . the film is rated r for disturbing violent images , language , sexual content and some drug use and would be acceptable for older teenagers . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
jay and silent bob strike back , kevin smith's swan song to his two most famous characters , is the best received comedy that i've seen since there's something about mary , which is a tea party in comparison to the foul-mouthed humor in jay and silent bob strike back . the audience didn't just laugh ; they went wild with boisterous laughter and heavy applause throughout . in short , if you like really raunchy humor , you may find it , as i did , to be the funniest movie of the year . ( on the other hand , if you are one of those who walked out in disgust with smith's dogma , then jay and silent bob strike back is not the movie for you . ) it seems their comic book alter egos , bluntman and chronic , are being used in a movie without jay and silent bob's consent . jay and silent bob strike back has more and better used cameos than just about any movie that i've ever seen . the film stops several times to make fun of itself and of the audience who was " stupid " enough to buy tickets to this movie . ( actually , purchasing tickets to this film is extremely smart given that it delivers more laughter per dollar than anything in recent memory . ) the film even skewers people who write about movies on the internet . guilty . although it's filled with inside jokes , you'll still be laughing even if you only get some of them . it's easy to understand enough so that they are still funny . his favorite topic is oral sex , but , being an equal opportunity profaner , he's willing to make crude jokes about absolutely anything . but it is his buddy , the aptly named silent bob , who is responsible for most of the movie's success . his reaction shots , with his wildly exaggerated eye movements , are comedic gems . these charlie's angels types give a ride to our heroes on their trek to lalaland to stop the picture . one of the funnier sight gags has the women using a pink , clam-shaped , birth control case that contains high tech gadgetry . granted , it's not the movie for everyone , but , if you like kevin smith's brand of humor , you'll find that this is his best . and , as i said earlier , it's the funniest movie of the year thus far . no , wait . forget , `thus far . ' it's bound to be the funniest movie of the year . in a time when almost every movie feels obligated to come in at pg-13 so that they can rake in the maximum cash , it's great to see a filmmaker with the guts to target only a mature audience . it is rated r and contains pervasive crude humor and language and sexual situations . in the silicon valley , it will be showing at the amc and the century theaters . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
in irwin winkler's life as a house , one of the very best films of the year , george has some big problems . in an incredibly nuanced and oscar-caliber performance , kevin kline plays george , an average joe who lives in a shack next to multimillion dollar mansions above the pacific ocean . ( in a part worthy of a supporting actress nomination , kristin scott thomas plays robin , george's ex-wife . ) it may make good business sense , but it rips george's heart out . as anyone who has ever lost their job knows , this can be almost unbearably painful . and that isn't even close to the worst thing that happens to george . don't worry , this isn't one of those manipulative disease-movie-of-the-week weepers . you'll certainly find many tearful moments in it , but the marvelous script by mark andrus ( as good as it gets ) is uplifting and funny as well as poignant and honest . the other part comes from the richness of the script , which gives a whole host of featured and minor characters rich stories of their own . in a fairly standard length film , it packs more into the narrative than most miniseries and does it without ever rushing . the actors are marvelous , making each of their problems palpable . robin asks george in a telling , confessional question that has no proper answer . those about him take his weight lost as some sort of fluke . george doesn't even have an indoor shower . all but the most cynical should be moved by the transformation in sam , george , robin and all the rest of characters . this upbeat story is almost as good as the downbeat american beauty . common to both are the richness of their narratives and of all the characters . when it's over , you may be like me . life as a house made such an impression on me that i had trouble moving . what a wonderful story it is . it is rated r for " language , sexuality and drug use " and would be acceptable for teenagers . in the silicon valley , it will be showing at the amc and the century theaters . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
pulp fiction is a singular show . the best way to describe it is that it is as if you sit down in the movie theater and are immediately transported to a roller coaster going full speed through a fun house of ghoulish images . this is complemented with one of the funniest , smartest , and filthiest dialogs i have heard in a long time . there is no other movie i can compare it to . it has the adrenaline flow of speed , the intelligent dialog of my dinner with andre , the violence of the goriest part of the godfather , and the comedy of tootsie . all that having been said , it is like none of the above other than the superficial aspects i just mentioned . if extreme violence ( e . g . , brains blown on car windows ) is something you can not endure , if 700 uses of the f word is something you can not tolerate , if heavy drug use is something you care never to see ( cocaine is passe we learn , all of the in-gangsters now do heroin ) , then do not pay your money to see pulp fiction . on the other hand , all of the above really works in this show . this is a parody of criminal life and a really funny one . oscars are possible here . harvey keitel plays a fixer of problems for the bad guy . christopher walken shows up in a single long important scene . whew , and i probably missed a lot of other people who did some great acting . the major hero and the one who took the most risks in this movie was the scriptwriter . this is a movie that to describe it will only make you want not to go see it , yet it is mesmerizing and wonderful . the intensity level of the movie is off the scale . people were laughing like crazy in the theater and to intelligent dialog too . other scenes had the audience gasping for breath and uttering out loud " oh , my god " . several scenes were worse the finger cutting scene in the piano . the camerawork was mainly standard stuff , but there are several scenes where it got pretty experimental . the best example is the long scene of wills staring into the camera without moving while he listens to the major bad guy , whom we have not yet seen , delivering a long lecture . it then switches to a view of only the back of the bad guy's head with everything else out of focus while willis listens for quite a while more . if you can like roller coasters and if you have taken to heart my very serious caveats at the first , then i recommend this show to you . do not take or let any teenager see this . it is too much for them . it is rated r , but this is certainly nc-17 . why it did not get nc-17 i can not figure out unless it was because the show only talks about sex and has no naked bodies . it runs 2 : 34 which is a tad long . i think the movie is truly unique and is perfect for its genre so i give it my top rating of * * * * . see it on a big screen with lots of folks in the audience for maximum enjoyment . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
leni riefenstahl's most remembered and most vilified film is triumph of the will . it has been called the most effective propaganda film of all time . i found the movie to be a religious film , and , in fact , hitler himself talks about national socialism as being the equivalent of a religious order . it has some of the same feel of the movies about religious cults except this time it is a true life cult , and these are not actors . make no mistake about it , the people in this film were worshipping someone they thought was their messiah . leni captures this with chilling accuracy . the print i saw was in poor quality . i once saw parts of a video of this movie that was in much worse shape . nevertheless , you could see the zealotry and feel the intense emotions . it is easy to dismiss all of this with - well , i would never have been a nazi . watching the expressions of the people there , you could see how many of them did believe that national socialism was their future and hitler was their salvation . all very scary stuff . you could easily close you ears and just watch the master of leni's camerawork . if you are careful you can even see one of her many cameras going up in an elevator . opening back up your ears , you get the music and sound that evoke the power of the this self-proclaimed " master race " . interestingly , of the many speakers , with the exception of hitler and a few others , most of the leaders were crude and coarse looking . leni has them looking like that just finished a big meal at the local beer hall and you are waiting for the big burp into the camera . if you have any doubts that this is a religious picture , wait for the scene where hitler goes on a long slow walk through 200 , 000 party members standing in attention . when you leave the theater , you know you have seen the power of true evil , and as the quote at the start said , knowledge of evil is a precondition to its defeat . for this reason and for the brilliance of the film making , i recommend this to everyone old enough to truly understand the difference between good and evil . it has no mpaa rating . it is clearly a * * * * show . triumph of the will runs 1 : 54 , has some spoken german in it along with english subtitles , but it is essentially a montage of extremely effective imagery . finally , anyone interest in leni should be sure to see the recent documentary the wonderful , horrible life of leni riefenstahl about her life and her films . it is absolutely fascinating . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
it has made several lists as one of the greatest movies of all time . it is easy to see why . the movie is filmed in a stunning blank and white . the ominous clouds that constantly surround the stadium are made even more menacing by the contrasty black and white images . the movie , on the other hand , could serve as an ad for the united nations . i never knew that finland had so many great long distance runners for example . the movie starts with images of greek temples . leni is an absolute master of cinematography . the angles she shoots the statues and her blending and fading from one scene to the other along with the texture of her prints made me think of the great impressionist painters , especially renoir . her extremely effective use of dramatic music is reminiscent of a great wagner opera . after your eyes and ears have feasted in these images of ancient greece , one of the statues dissolves into a modern athlete , but this and the other athletes are all naked showing the joy and power of the pure physical body . this in turn switches to the 1936 olympics , and it is all pure documentary from there . leni spent several years personally editing every second of the film . see the recent and excellent documentary on her life ( the wonderful , horrible life of leni riefenstahl ) to learn more fascinating insights on the camerawork that went into olympiad . i must admit , that i do not watch nor am i interested at all in sports . nevertheless , this documentary was mesmerizing . watching the expressions of people's faces were particularly engrossing . many small details were of interest like the women athletes all wore lipstick , and the marathon runners would come to a complete stop for a minute or two to drink their water and get toweled off . jesse owens was truly a wonderful runner and jumper , and he managed to make his world record setting almost seem simple with his deceptive , easy going smile . the movie runs about 4 hours . i have been told it may be available on video . the print i saw was in pretty good shape for a movie a half century old . it was unrated , but was definitely a g level show - although modern censors would have probably forced leni to get an r unless she cut out the 3 minutes of nudity . i recommend it to everyone on the planet regardless of age and give it my top rating of * * * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
when i went into see crimson tide , i knew it had a lot going for it . i had seen the trailers which were charged with excitement . i knew it had one of my absolute favorite stars in denzel washington and with another favorite in gene hackman . the story appeared to be a tom clancy style military thriller . all this notwithstanding , i was not adequately prepared for what was to unfold in front of me . this show was phenomenal ! going into the movie , i was already prejudiced . i knew it was about some russians threatening to launch nuclear missiles at the us . in the post-cold war era , i felt it would be hard to worry about that anymore and so the axiom the movie was built upon would have questionable credibility . ramsey is hell on wheels . more than that i will not tell you . you will have to endure the suspense yourself . if you have a weak heart or suffer from hypertension , you should be require to get a release from your physician before being admitted . there is so much excellent about this picture it is hard to know where to begin . the four best parts , and all were equally superb , were the acting of the two leads , the directing , and the intense cinematography . let me deal first with the acting . i would be happy to see both stars get oscar nominations , but washington was the best . his every scene was compelling . it would be easy to overplay it whereas washington plays it quiet reserved but with absolute authority . he is openly vulnerable and yet has tremendous courage and convictions . hackman plays ramsey in a way that you never hate him even when he becomes the bad guy . hackman makes you doubt who is right and who is wrong no matter the logic of the script . two tour de force performances by both . dzundza made a minor part with few lines say a lot . the directing by tony scott was to give us a movie that was at a fever pitch from start to finish . here this movie is about to explode it is so hot and this intensity stays from the very start until , but not including the epilogue . the most surprising part is the character development by the director and somewhat by the screenwriter ( michael schiffer ) . this is not merely an action thriller a la speed or true lies ; this is a character study reminiscent of the caine mutiny . the life aboard a submarine was as realistic as das boot thanks to great set decoration by michael white , but the lead characters here were much more alive and interesting . actually , the movie that comes to mind immediately is the hunt for red october , but crimson tide is much better . scott had me griping the seat most of the film . almost like the experience i had when i saw aliens for the first time . the luminescent steel gray rain covering up the sailors so they became almost eerie ghosts was one good example . the spray of the sub as it dove was another . the best however was the way the camera created and enhanced tension by extreme close-ups inside the sub . watch the harsh light providing strong contrast to the shadows aboard ship . words can not describe the overall effect he was able to create . finally , the music , especially the religious piece song by a chorus at the start and the conclusion was very moving and effective . for a show i loved so much , i do have exactly two criticisms . first , the epilogue was unnecessary , and if they felt the need to have one , this was not the one . it had the appearance of being added by someone in the marketing department who wanted to soften the picture to improve its box office take . make like the epilogue was not there ; i did . on a more minor note , the screenwriter looses control and gives one character some cliched racist lines to say in one scene that are not in character and are not of the same intelligent writing quality of the rest of the script . choose a theater with the biggest screen and the best sound system in your town , and go early and get a good seat . don't wait for video . you want to see this show in all of its glory - upfront and personal . be sure and go to the restroom in advance . you do not want to miss a minute of this show . crimson tide runs 1 : 53 , and there is not a wasted minute in it . it is rated r for quite mild violence and a little bad language . it would be fine for anyone able to watch an intense thriller . i actually think kids 10 and over would love it . this is a * * * * picture in my book , and it is my first top ranked film in a half a year since i try to be very careful with my highest ratings . see this movie now before it migrates to the smaller screens . don't miss it ! * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
copycat is cinema at its best . we are talking edge of the seat thriller , but not because it's shocking , which is frequently is , but because it is an extremely well written , directed , and acted movie . this is the sort of movie that draws its audience into the story like a spider into its web until in the end , the picture is life , and you feel a part of it . when the house lights came up , i could hardly move . my one comment was a huge wow ! the show starts like any good murder mystery or thriller . my first reaction was this was going to be an enjoyable cop show with some good acting . it starts off at a normal pace from the station , but by the time the show is a third over , you are flying along . moreover , the last quarter of the movie is a leap into hyperspace the tension gets so thick , but at no time does the movie play with your emotions and no matter how gory the crime scenes , they never cross over the line by over doing any of the scenes . hunter is one of my favorite actresses perhaps because i have a southern accent like hers and am on the small side so i always identify with her . actually , i think she is more my idol . here she gives a possible academy award nomination performance . she has not been so good since one of my all time favorite movies , broadcast news , which i think no human being can see too often it is so brilliant . i am unhappy to report that the producers ( arnon milchan and mark tarlov ) of copycat felt she needed a dialog coach to tone down her southern accent a bit . hey , people with southern accents do move to places like san francisco and keep their accents . i know ; i did , and its okay . we do not need people to come and tell us how to speak " right " . weaver , who i think it is generally terrific , has been known to overdo it if not carefully directed . foley's specialty is like that of a great forger since he reproduces in sequence some of the most heinous serial killers of this century . this turns out to be a fascinating plot device and the script treats each small point , like how the sequence is determined , carefully . the tightly drawn violins of the music by christopher young add immensely to the overall feeling of dread and impending doom . the script by first time screenwriters ann biderman and david madsen is brilliant and the dialog is smart . like pulp fiction the writers know how to push the edge of the envelope , but they never step out of the bounds of good taste and reasonableness no matter how gruesome the material . the whole character of the agoraphobic is one which is so easy to make into caricature which they skillfully avoid . they even know when to introduce laughs to cut through the tension . the story is made highly creditable and believable from start to finish . the ending is perfect , and they avoid several possible cliched epilogues . i look forward to many more movies from them . this subplot was not of the same quality as the rest of the story , and if nico's entire role had been purged , the story would have been tighter and stronger still . the subtle but effective cinematography by laszlo kovacs has just the right blend of lightness and darkness to give an eeriness to everything without ever overpowering any of the scenes . the editing cuts at all of the right moments for maximum intensity . the makeup , especially on the doctor , adds to the realism . now for the real star of copycat , the director , jon amiel . like the first time screenwriters , there is nothing in his background to suggest greatness . both of these were good shows but nothing outstanding . here he keeps his actors and actresses so tightly wound and yet under control at the same time that is a joy to watch such directorial craft in action . i sure hope he decides to do many more thrillers . i can't wait . copycat runs for 2 : 03 , but you won't spend much time checking your watch . other than deleting the nico subplot , i think the show is near perfection and the pacing exactly right , albeit bordering on heart attach pace . the movie is rated r for violence , gory dead bodies , and nudity . the show would be suitable for teenagers , only if they are quite mature and are not prone to nightmares . i strongly recommend this show to you . you may want to see this picture with a friend who can walk you to the car afterwards . it is pretty intense , but don't be scared off ; it is a don't miss movie . it gets my rare , full * * * * rating . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : october 27 , 1995 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
toy story is an absolutely wonderful movie for both kids and adults . it stretches your mind creatively to look at inanimate objects with a new respect , and it dazzles your senses with a wonderful new art form , the full length computer generated movie that is a cross between a disney cartoon and a live action film . moreover , in a year with some quite imaginative kids movies ( the indian in the cupboard and the secret of roan inish being the second and third best of 1995 ) , this one stands head and shoulders above all of the rest . toy story is special because of the story itself and because of the computer generated animation that is nothing less than phenomenal . yes , this has been done before perhaps , but not to this scale and degree of sophistication . i look forward to many more magical pictures from this creative team . woody holds this elevated position by virtue of being andy's favorite toy . the tension surrounds what toys andy will get . the walk of the toy soldiers is great . remember that cheap toy soldiers have their feet stuck on a single strip of plastic which makes sneaking up on the enemy extremely difficult . this could mean their demise too , and as hamm , the piggy bank , puts it , " yes sir , we're next month's garage sale fodder for sure . " woody laments , " what chance does a toy like me have against a buzz lightyear action figure ? " the majority of the movie is about the conflicts between woody and buzz . there are excellent lessons taught to kids along the way . the story is full of demonstrations of good moral values as well as the illustration of what leading an evil life like that of the neighborhood bad kid , sid , can get you . i will not give any of this away . the ending is perfect too . see it all yourself . the toys are hyper-realistic , but the people in the movie are drawn more cartoon characterish . my wife , sally , said that she thought this was to make the point that it is the toys in the story that are real more than the people . i suspect she is right . the colors of the toys have a luminescence that i have not seen before on the screen . the accuracy of the toys is reminiscent of the vermeer and the other great dutch painters of the seventeenth century , absolute devotion to the small details and to lighting effects . the wonderful script ( joel cohen , john lasseter , alex sokolow , andrew stanton , and joss whedon ) uses dialog to make the toys come alive and yet be extremely funny . rex , the dinosaur , introduces himself to buzz saying , " i'm from mattel . well , actually i'm from a smaller company that was purchased by mattel in a leveraged buyout . " i hope the writers win a lot of awards . toy story runs a fast and extremely well paced 1 : 17 . i posit no one will get bored during this movie . it is rated g but i should warn people that young viewers may get scared by sid and his toys . luckily our two families had more laps than kids so that when the scary scenes came , all kids had a place to go . perhaps you should check your kid to lap ratio before you go . jeffrey gets angry at shows that scare him , but not this one . he took it in stride as part of the movie going experience . his version of revisionist history , by the way , claims that he actually gave the movie six thumbs up rather than just two . i give the movie my strongest recommendation and award it a full * * * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
persuasion is a perfect movie . i have never read it so the story was totally fresh . on the other hand , this movie is so good that if i had read the book a thousand times , i would still have left me awe struck by the acting and the production . i do hope all of the academy members see this show . it deserves awards in a myriad of categories . root is a british shakespearean actress , and this is her first film . it is one of the most auspicious beginnings for a movie actress i can remember . she is an actress on the plain side of homely who transforms every scene she is in into a magical moment and yet she spends most of the movie just listening and giving the most expressive , pensive , frequently sad , but always compelling expressions i can remember . she says more by saying nothing than most actresses do with a whole movie full of dialog . it was entirely prudent of you to reject him . " if it reminded me of any movie it was probably the unforgettable the age of innocence . the script by nick dear , based on the austin novel , is full of memorable lines , but the great direction by first time director roger mitchell relies more on silence and on expressions than on the words to carry the emotion of the tale . she says , " you presume to know me " , and he replies , " in my heart i know you intimately . " we also have , a la the age of innocence , an extremely effective brief hand holding scene . the height of passion is reached in the show with a single , quick kiss . fast it may be , the effect is total . besides root's acting , which should put her on the short list for an oscar , the performance by hinds is almost as good . in fact , all of the rest of the cast are excellent . there is not even a mediocre performance . the craft of the movie itself is phenomenal . never has candle lit scenes been more effectively and lovingly done . watch the extreme length of the candle flames and how the camera shots through and around them . daly's technique of shooting indoor scenes closer up than normal gives an intimacy and presence that i have not seen before . in scenes that normally would have been filmed further back , like the ones of the indoor dancing , he uses handheld cameras and stays in tight on the faces and even uses panning without making the audience dizzy . several times he lets the camera linger on a person photographic style even when the character has no speaking parts . they add to the movie enormously without the usual in your face period pieces that are overdone . there are many fine examples of this but my favorite is the clothes and especially the navy hat that the captain sometimes wears . the look tells us more about his character than many pages of dialog would have . the make up artist is extremely talented . watch carefully for the subtle but important changes in ann's makeup as the story develops . although there are tragedies in the movie that will take your breath away , the story is one mainly of carefully controlled and checked emotions . finally , the movie ends as well as it begins . i can not use it here as it gives away a key fact , but it is a perfect statement to his obliviousness and an excellent end to the story . it is a g movie that is rated pg since it will probably bore kids under 8 . there is absolutely nothing in it to offend anyone of any age . i most strongly recommend this movie to you , and i give it my rarely awarded top rating of * * * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
i will leave the movie to tell the story , and i will concentrate on commenting on the film . i am not a big fan of black and white , but i am glad this movie was made ( janusz kaminski ) that way . it made it seem more real since we all know after seeing all of the 40s newsreel footage that w . w . ii was in black and white . also , the story was so sad that black and white seemed a proper metaphor . actually , one of the geniuses of the movie was the use very effect use of a small bit of color in it . more great imagery . i have mixed feelings about spielberg as a director . i was disappointed by jurassic park but loved et . well , i found schindler's list just about perfect . the last hour of this movie was uplifting and ultimately very hopeful . i also liked his use of graphic violence not to titillate or scare , but simply to be totally realistic . the excellent script by steven zaillian based on thomas keneally's book must also share in the credit . the acting is excellent . i thought ralph fiennes was especially good ; chilling ! this show and these actors deserve tons of oscar nominations and awards . if i had a complaint , it would be about the overexposed whites in the center of the screen . they frequently made the center unclear . if the movie had any music i do not remember it . perhaps because the images are still so vivid . schindler's list runs a necessarily long 3 : 07 . you will be tired at the end because of the length and the seriousness of what you have just witnessed , but you will think the editing by michael kahn was done and be glad of the length . the movie is rated r for some frightening , bloody , and extremely realistic violence . it would be okay for mature teenagers . this movie gets * * * * in my book , and i recommend that every adult on the planet . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : january 1 , 1994 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
it has been over a year now since i last gave a movie a full four stars , but i saw one this weekend that got my * * * * rating . i can only describe the age of innocence as devastating . martin scorsese described it as his " most violent film " . this is from a director who brought you taxi driver and raging bull . the violence in the film is strictly mental . there is no physical violence or even threats of any . the " violence " is strictly mental because the film , set in the late 1800s , is about repression and entrapment in an age of carefully prescribed moral actions . the sex in the film is mainly some great handholding although there are a few kisses . the cinematography by michael ballhaus is spectacular and deserves an oscar . the casting was excellent ( daniel day-lewis as newland archer , michelle pfeiffer as ellen olenska , and winona ryder as may welland ) , and the acting and directing near perfect . numerous oscar possibilities in this film . you could feel the repression of a society where you must act in a certain way and where most rules were extremely strict and yet most were implicit and unspoken . depending on your sex it would be hard not to identify with one of the key actor or actresses . you feel repressed when you left the theater . when the movie was over , i could hardly move . it was the same feeling i got when i first saw aliens . i just set there staring at a blank screen . the movie left such a strong impression on me that words seem inadequate to describe it . i thought the editing ( thelma schoonmaker ) perfect and would not want to see a single frame removed . the movie is rated pg although what it did to keep it from being rated g is not clear . anyone older than 8 could see it , but you probably need to be at least 15 to begin to truly understand it . this is a gem of a movie ; a near perfect movie . i award it * * * * and recommend this movie strongly . don't miss it ! * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
the movie is divided by decades . the script's layout and the brilliant writing make this possible . i have never seen a more anti-communist movie . suffice it to say that it did not work . in every decade , as their standard of living gets worse , they still believe that it will be good someday . it was not a very safe time to be alive either . this show is about family love more than anything else . if your family could survive this and be not only in tact , but happy , then it is a strong family indeed ! there are a couple of devastatingly awful tragedies that strike this family . it is easy to cry they are so terrible , and yet the film is never manipulative . i am glad the horrors were shown since it made their ability to smile at adversity seem even more amazing . i know it will never happen , but ge you deserves an academy nomination and maybe the award as well . to say his performance was moving is a gigantic understatement . although gong li was not quite as good , hers was an outstanding performance . the movie is so real that you had to pinch yourself to remember it was not a documentary . if you liked the joy luck club , then you should love this since it is an order of magnitude better made and more realistic . to live was one of the most life affirming movies of the year . it runs 2 : 13 which is just about perfect although it was good enough to make it a 6 hour movie in my opinion . i recommend everyone over the age of about 10 see it . it is unrated , but i suspect it would be rated pg-13 for some scenes of violence . there is no sex , nudity , or bad language . i give it my top rating of * * * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : december 27 , 1994 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
this is not a sentimental film neither is it ever manipulative . it records the history in a stark , but effective and factual retelling . in this more complete rendition , anne comes alive as much more human and her death even more tragic . the story is told chronologically , and there is as much time devoted to the periods before and after the diary as to the diary period itself . the great shakespearean actor and director kenneth branagh does the narration . he delivers his lines with little emotion , but much impact . this is one of many passages in the film that speaks to all of us today . do we really know our kids ? anne comes alive in the film as a energetic girl who was somewhat of the class clown . anne confides in one section that , " they keep telling me i should talk less and mind my own business , but i seemed doomed to failure . " i have to be my own mother . " the initial publication of anne's diary had little impact , but eventually its fame grew , and it was translated into hundreds of languages and made into a play and then into many different movies , the first and most famous movie version being george stevens's 1959 one . there is actually little to see there and yet , no one will leave the place untouched . this movie will stay with me as it will anyone lucky enough to see it . a brilliant piece of cinematic art , and one incredible story . this review has only barely touched the surface of all that is revealed in the film . even if you think you know it all , this film will be a revelation to you . anne frank remembered runs a fast 2 : 02 , and i would not want a minute of it cut . the film is rated pg because of the horrors it discusses . there is little of the emaciated or dying people in concentration camp scenes so i think there is not much visually to shock young viewers . any kid old enough to consider the subject matter could see the film , and my guess is that means anyone over 8 . i give this film my strongest recommendation possible , and i believe the world would be a better place if everyone saw it . i give it * * * * for being a perfect movie . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
want to see a near perfect film ? like to see a movie where the people in it will undoubtedly get one or two best actor nominations ( and possibly a best director ) ? like slow moving almost dreamy films ? well , have i got a recommendation for you : see the shawshank redemption ! this is not a horror show or even close to it . robbins and freeman are both lifers . this plot setup happens in the first few minutes of the movie . after that it turns into a film about relationships and a dandy little mystery as well . the acting is phenomenal . i knew freeman could be this good ( remember him in glory ? ) , but i had no idea the depth of robbins acting ability ( my favorite of his before this was short cuts ) . must have been a dozen other prisoners in memorable acting roles . casting was right on the mark . the director ( frank darabont ) really knew how to set the right pace and keep it . he made no mistakes in my book . the well written script ( frank darabont and stephen king ) helped immensely as did the dark and somber cinematography ( roger deakins ) . you can not say too much about this show without giving key facts away so i will leave it at recommending you see it on a large screen with a quiet audience as this is one picture that will absorb you , and you want no interruptions . it starts well and ends well , but the 98% in the middle is the best part . see it now ! the editing ( richard francis-bruce ) was perfect , and i would not have cut out a minute of it . it is correctly rated by the mpaa as an r . it actually has much less violence and profanity than you would expect in a prison show . i would have no problem in letting mature teenagers see it - take 'em with you , it is a serious show . i strongly recommend this perfect gem of a show , and i award it my top rating of * * * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
the movie is divided by decades . the script's layout and the brilliant writing make this possible . i have never seen a more anti-communist movie . suffice it to say that it did not work . in every decade , as their standard of living gets worse , they still believe that it will be good someday . it was not a very safe time to be alive either . this show is about family love more than anything else . if your family could survive this and be not only in tact , but happy , then it is a strong family indeed ! there are a couple of devastatingly awful tragedies that strike this family . it is easy to cry they are so terrible , and yet the film is never manipulative . i am glad the horrors were shown since it made their ability to smile at adversity seem even more amazing . i know it will never happen , but ge you deserves an academy nomination and maybe the award as well . to say his performance was moving is a gigantic understatement . although gong li was not quite as good , hers was an outstanding performance . the movie is so real that you had to pinch yourself to remember it was not a documentary . if you liked the joy luck club , then you should love this since it is an order of magnitude better made and more realistic . to live was one of the most life affirming movies of the year . it runs 2 : 13 which is just about perfect although it was good enough to make it a 6 hour movie in my opinion . i recommend everyone over the age of about 10 see it . it is unrated , but i suspect it would be rated pg-13 for some scenes of violence . there is no sex , nudity , or bad language . i give it my top rating of * * * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : december 27 , 1994 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
one of martin scorsese's first and most important pictures was taxi driver . for its 20th anniversary , there is a new print and a remastered stereo sound track , and the picture has a new theatrical release . some of the hairdos make look dated , but the message it tells is as powerful and frightening today as it was in 1976 . this is a landmark film in the history of the cinema . they both have an outward innocence that make them appear well matched in some strange sense . the show is full of great visuals . travis sits in front of the tv staring with a wasted look and glazed eyes while eating his breakfast , which consists of white bread clumps with large quantities of brandy , sugar , and milk poured on top . there are many great minor characters . one of my favorites has martin scorsese as a husband sitting in travis's taxi watching his philandering wife's silhouette in the window of an apartment . he practices the classic cinematic line , " you talkin' to me , " in the mirror while practicing drawing his guns quasi-cowboy style . travis says , " now i see this clearly . my whole life is pointed in one direction . there never has been a choice for me . " in a scene reminiscent of john hinkley , travis goes fully armed to a palantine rally . the senator is delivering a pompous and meaningless speech that parallels travis's vision of life . no longer will the wrong roads be taken . " in a movie full of make up and hair styles that make a statement , travis shows up at the rally with a mohawk . the ending is suspenseful , extremely gory , and somewhat surprising . the epilogue after that is really surprising . so much of this study of evil is brilliant . certainly at the top of the list is the acting by de niro , but close behind would be the directing and the writing ( paul schrader ) . everyone knows what an excellent job jodie foster did , but i was impressed at how cybill shepherd took the almost coquettish but naive minor part and made it interesting . harvey keitel had a tiny part , but managed to put a lot into it . the cinematography ( michael chapman ) throughout the picture is quite effective showing the grit and the garish lights of the city , but the slow motion sequences at the end are the best . an impressive range . i certainly was pleased with the remastered sound since the show had great movie music ( bernard herrmann ) . it started off with sad and melancholic tunes and then switched to ominous ones created with a muted trumpet . rarely these days do films dare to have any music to speak of , and if they do , it is frequently nothing more that loud and overpowering rock music that turns the show into a long rock video more suitable for mtv . it is rated r , but borders on nc-17 . there is no sex or nudity . the language is frequently obscene , and there are some racial epithets . the reason i say it is almost nc-17 is solely for the gory ending . i do not think the violence is gratuitous , and i am glad the studio did not demand a more saleable version without the scenes . i think the picture as delivered is brilliant . i would let teenagers see it if they are mature . i recommend the film highly , and give it my top rating of * * * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
think of the movie as a home spun and comical in cold blood . it is told in a highly stylistic fashion by the coen brothers . fargo has all the characteristics of a farce , but actually we are told that the story is done exactly as it occurred in the cold and snowy minnesota winter of 1987 . the film starts with bright white images on a snowy white background , and then the credits come on with tiny black type with wide spacing which seems a metaphor for the bleakness of the countryside . h . macy who was so wonderful as the hard nosed principal in mr . carl talks incessantly while gaear rarely speaks and is more frightening . gaear has a constant gaze as if he has no morals or conscience . the deadpan way he delivers his lines is at once funny , moronic , and scary . the whole movie is a seamless blend of comedy and tragedy . one minute the audience is laughing out loud and the next it is gasping for breath . the closest recent movie to it in effect is probably pulp fiction . in fargo the dialog is not as well written , but the images are craft much stronger . if this was the south , most of the people in the movie would be called , good old boy types . instead , everyone in coens's movie says , " ya , ya " and has thick scandinavian accents . the coens are from this area so presumably this is authentic . she sounds like a hick , which most people associate with stupidity , but she is quite cleaver and brave , no matter how sweet and hooky she is . the camera and the audience love her . a great character and an impressive piece of acting . actually , all of the actors from the nervous w . h . macy to the cocky harve presnell to diabolical steve buscemi and peter stormare are all excellent . many funny scenes are side plots that are not intended to go anywhere . characters show up and are never seen again . if roger deakins does not get nominated for best cinematography , then the academy is asleep . the snowy images are so strong . one of the best examples is a scene filmed from on high of jerry walking despondently across an empty parking lot filled with snow . most of all , this is a coen movie , and the best movie they have ever made . it brilliantly moves from comedy to poignancy to tragedy and back constantly . the images , not just of the sets like the huge lit up paul bunyan statue , but of the expressions on the actors' faces are as strong as branding irons . the coen's style is unlike that of any other . in a complex film the scene at the end give some hints as to what it might have all meant . later she says of the tragedies , " i just don't understand it , " which may be the ultimate reality about the senselessness of it all . fargo only runs 1 : 38 thanks to fast pacing by editor roderick jaynes . it is rated r for bad language , some sex and nudity , and lots of blood . in others , people bleed a lot so they they have to hold something on the wound to stop the blood . you may have to look away in some scenes , but even so i did not find the violence excessive . this is a film suitable for teenagers only if they are quite mature . i think the film is flawless , brilliant , and certainly unique . i recommend this film strongly to you and give it my rarely awarded top * * * * rating . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
i have no doubt that grand canyon will be my best movie of 1991 . what is the plot of grand canyon ? hard to say . it is about a lot of things . in short it is about life . grand canyon is set in la , but it could have been set anywhere . the movie's title comes from a wish of one of the characters played by danny glover . it was most of all a film full of wonderful characters that you would like personally to meet . i hope the writers get the oscar for it . the directing is super . it was done by lawrence kasdan who did the big chill , and you can think of it as a much more serious and heavy big chill . alternatively , you can view it as updated big chill for the 90s . grand canyon is full of characters and full of events that make you think of real life and not movies . imagine a left turn against heavy traffic that is really scary and realistic and not the laugh track version you have come to expect . this is also a quite scary movie with a fair amount of fear and blood . yet this was a life affirming and fundamentally happy movie that made you want to immediately give your spouse ( and children and friends ) a big hug . i had no idea steve martin could be an articulate and serious character . there is one very bad side to the show : it ends ! the ending is fine and not abrupt yet i wanted to go on for hours . i love these people . grand canyon runs 2 : 15 which might be too long in a lessor picture , but here i wish the editor carol littleton had included even more footage . grand canyon is rated r for some reason and i guess it is the fear and the bad language . certainly it would be fine for any teenager . i recommend this film strongly to everyone over the age of 12 and award it my top rating of * * * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
this means i got to see it again for the first time through his young eyes . in all of the thousands of movies to which i have gone , star wars is the only one where i was so pumped up when i saw it originally in 1977 that i told my wife we had to see it again immediately . since i originally saw it before i became i movie critic , i have never written a review of it . i will correct that omission now , but i will stick more to commentary and just highlight some of my favorite scenes . to be fair to both of the people on earth who do not know the story , let me sketch it out for them first . the empire is building a death star so powerful that it can blow up an entire planet . who were your favorite characters ? i was and still am fascinated by the hinted at but never fully developed chemistry between luke and princess leia . i was impressed by the way fisher played the princess as so tough and yet so regal a figure . ford is hilarious , and it is still the funniest part he has ever done . for evil , james earl jones's voice and the eerie sound effects of the pumping oxygen made for a forceful villain in darth vader . most movies lose it in inappropriate villains , but george lucas's script crafts just the right contrast and blend of good and evil . moreover , the script , as i will demonstrate shortly , is funny and downright brilliant . the two best parts of the show were the special effects and the script . the effects are no longer quite so impressive , but the script is as strong today as it was then . let me now answer my original question . the best characters in the show are c3po and r2d2 . if you don't fall instantly in love with both of them , check yourself into the ebenezer scrooge clinic to have your heart checked out . han solo's ship the millennium falcon , for example , has weapons that have more in common with a b52 than what you will probably find in a future spaceship . the best and funniest scene of the show has to be the bar scene . i could not imagine more effective designs than the costumes ( john mollo ) and make-up ( stuart freeborn ) in that scene . i still laugh when i think about it . now back to the most important part , the script . let me show some of what made this a seminal film in cinematic history while at the same time absolutely delighting its audiences . she may not look like much , but she's got it where it counts . " han is not impressed by this force rubbish saying , " hokey religions and ancient weapons aren't as good as a blaster at your side . " even princess leia gets some funny material . the music by john williams is incredible . it has your adrenaline pumping in almost every scene . most musical scores are lucky if they have a single decent number . williams's score is a cornucopia of musical wonder . it seemed almost a sacrilege to watch it on merely a large tv screen with speakers not powerful enough to raise the dead . it is correctly rated pg . there is no sex or nudity , and since this was before even pg movies felt obliged to include some bad words , there are none . there are a couple of mildly scary scenes . one is of a brief shot of a severed and bloody arm and another is a shot from a distance of the charred remains of luke's relatives . i think only kids under 5 will be scared by the show . i give it my top recommendation and rating of * * * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
the empire strikes back is the first sequel to star wars , but using a bit of revisionist history , george lucas renumbered it to be the fifth in the series and star wars to be the fourth . a more intriguing marketing gimmick i have never seen . for my money , nothing like star wars could be as good , but the empire strikes back is certainly excellent with some characters stronger and one weaker than the first , but the script is as impressive and innovative as ever . the movie is an adventure and a comedy like star wars , but the empire strikes back's main theme is the duality of the force and the struggle between good and evil as manifested in luke and darth vader . although everyone probably knows it by now , i will not repeat it lest one of the few people to have never seen the movie may be reading this review . one of the parts of this episode that i was particularly fond of the way is that the romantic aspect is more fully developed . there is a genuine chemistry between han and leia that starts off as verbal sparring , such as when han sarcastically says , " fraid i'd leave without giving you a good-bye kiss ? " ford was immature , but hilarious in the original . in this episode he isn't quite as funny , but his character is much more central to the plot . to me this was ford's movie even if it appeared to be luke's story . overall , i liked ford just as much as before , but fisher better . she warmed up to the part more and was given a more substantial role . whereas george lucas was star wars , having directed and wrote it , in this episode he was only listed as the executive producer and was credited with the story idea , but not the script itself . the director this time was irvin kershner and the script was by leigh brackett and the great screenwriter lawrence kasdan ( wyatt earp , the bodyguard , grand canyon , the accidental tourist , the big chill , body heat , and raiders of the lost ark ) . the script again is imaginative and full of laughs . poor chewy remains the brunt of the many of the jokes . yoda provided the figure that was the fountainhead of wisdom much as obi-wan did in the original . he looks and sounds like a yokel who knows nothing , but actually possesses almost infinite knowledge . found someone i'd say . " do or do not . c3po still gets some of the best lines . the visual special effects ( richard edlund and brian johnson ) are even more imaginative than last time . as just an example , consider the imperial walkers . the design makes absolutely no sense , but creates a great visual . watching them was actually my favorite part of the film . my son , i should point out , does a great imperial walker imitation . the kids learn creativity when they watch any of the star wars episodes . why spin a web like a spider from the fighters and lasso their legs cowboy style of course ! actually , there are a lot of parallels with cowboy shows and the star wars movies . i have a single , but significant criticism of this episode . although i know they had to do it , i did not like the casting of mark hamill to play luke skywalker again . the other actors had matured and improved , whereas hamill seems to have gone downhill . he was boyishly handsome in star wars , but in this episode , he had curiously seemed to have lost all of his good looks , and his energy level was too low . the empire strikes back runs 2 : 04 , and i think paul hirsch's editing needed the tighter focus that star wars had . the film is rated pg . again , the film is beautifully devoid of foul language . would that modern screenwriters would realize that bad language should generally be saved for r rated films and above . the story has cartoon level violence although there is one realistic , but not graphic picture of a hand being cut off . i think it would be fine for most kids over 4 . my son jeffrey ( age 7 ) loved it as did his dad . even with my above noted one major reservation , the empire strikes back still gets my top recommendation and rating of * * * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
okay admit it , when you hear the title moll flanders , you think of that racy novel from high school . yes , this is the same daniel defoe book , but an excellent director , pen densham , has made it into a marvelous character study and moving motion picture . certainly , moll flanders can be a bit bawdy at times , but compared to most popular films today , the depiction of the sex here is tame . this is cinema at its best : great actors , stirring music , impressive sets , and an intelligent script . flora is a saucy and high strung girl of about 7 who is more interested in escaping that hearing some silly old morality tale . hibble is just as determined that she will listen carefully to every single word of it . the script , which i believe is a loose adaptation of the novel , stays with spirit of the book and the cadence of the speech , but takes a lot of liberties . it paints a dickensian picture of the world that stretches credulity a bit , but it was easy for me to suspend disbelieve . i bought the story lock , stock , and barrel . mrs . mazzawatti's daughters are anything but charitable , and moll is forced to leave for quite surprising reasons that you will never be able to guess in advance . give yourself some pleasure . i'll bet you've never been kissed . " the story is wonderfully rich and varied and always keeps the audience's attention . the ending of the film is somewhat of a surprise and is extremely effective and moving . moll flanders may produce a few natural tears . although i cried a little toward the end , i never found the script manipulative . the acting was nothing short of brilliant . it is hard to have a favorite in movies of this caliber . if forced to choose , i'll go with morgan freeman's performance as the best . this luminescent actor seems incapable of anything less than a compelling performance . although this is not his best film , he is great in it . technically the movie is on par with the high quality of the acting . in fact , even better than the acting is the script by the director pen densham and the music by mark mancina . the music has an extensive range from delicate and loving to large and dramatic . i would be pleased to see this picture win many awards , but if i had to pick one , i'd give it to mark mancina for the music . the movie was filmed entirely in ireland . the snowy scenes are bleak and yet possess an inner warmth somehow thus suggesting the possibility of hope around the next corner . the costumes ( consolata boyle ) like the sets are lush and evocative without ever being unbelievably ostentatious . my favorite costume is the stern , long blue coat with the brass buttons that hibble wears . the movie flows naturally and sometimes slowly , but always with enough energy so that you remain on the edge of your seat . also the strong mood of the picture has to be credited to the director who is able to fashion just the right pieces to make it all come together . moll flanders is listed as running 2 : 49 , but i think it might be a misprint . certainly it did seem that long . however long it is , i would not want it edited down . the film is rated r . there is the brutality of that era , but it is done tastefully . there is brief sex , some nudity , but no bad language that i can remember . it would be fine for any teenager and perhaps those a bit younger . i give this show my top recommendation and award it * * * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : may 13 , 1996 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
cast your mind back to when you got your tray in the cafeteria and looked out onto the mass of humanity trying to figure out with whom you could sit . remember that feeling of potential rejection around every corner ? remember the horror of puberty ? i have never seen a film that captures the inner terror of that time better than welcome to the dollhouse . this film is being billed as " deliriously wicked " or " hilarious black comedy . " certainly the film is funny , but to me it is first and foremost a gripping tragedy - sad and somewhat disturbing . i was so touched by the excellent and realist script and the moving acting by heather matarazzo as the protagonist dawn wiener that i was near tears through out the entire show and stayed right on the edge of my seat . it is extremely easy to empathizes with dawn . i would rate this film in the most see category for parents , but it is so brilliant , i sincerely hope everyone sees it . dawn has looks , that while not ugly , are subpar . in junior high , homophobic epithets are particularly popular . dawn is nonplused by her treatment and asks one of her tormentors , " why do you hate me ? " to which the simple reply is , " because you're ugly . " yes , junior high is like that for some . i like the realistic way this dispute gets resolved in the show . a lot of the story deals with adolescence's obsession with sex . i want to get into a good school . " dawn has no such aspirations . most scripts would have coped out by compensated dawn's mediocre looks with strong academic strengths , but not this one . this is one of the few times she is really happy . they'll call you names , but not as much . " well , that's sure reassuring . the acting by the leads is even better . daria kalinina is excellent as a supercilious brat . matthew faber has pompous obnoxiousness down pat . the reason for the overwhelming success of the picture comes from two factors . the first is the acting by heather matarazzo . she acts like her glasses are not quite strong enough , and , in addition , she must avoid being seen , the net result is she kind of slinks around the school . the second , and most important reason , the show works so marvelously is todd solondz . he wrote , directed , and produced the film . this first time film maker has come up with a show that critics , including yours truly , say will certainly be on their best films of the year list . the script is intelligent , funny , poignant , and wise . although sometimes shocking , it is never manipulative . the director said of the casting that " although there is no sex , nudity , or violence in the movie , many parents were reluctant , if not unwilling , to allow their children to participate in the film . " he said that some parents found the film " unsettling " or " depressing " which he " took as a compliment as that reflected the world he was trying to portray . the music ( jill wisoff ) is an effective blend of old tchaikovsky classical pieces and modern rock ones . welcome to the dollhouse flies by at just 1 : 27 thanks to dead on editing by alan oxman . the film is rated r . just as the director said , there is no sex , nudity or violence . there is some bad language including some uses of the f word . the main reason for the r rating probably is that there is one attempted rape scene . this can be a disturbing show because of its realism , but it begs to be seen and the humor dulls some of the pain . i would like to think that kids as young as 10 will go see this film , but only with their parents . without parents , i would only let mature teenagers go . i was blown away by this tour de force of a movie , and it will certainly be high up on my best of the year list . i give the film my strongest recommendation and award it a full * * * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
the brave little toaster is a 1987 movie that proves you do not need a big budget to make an animated film that is an absolute delight for people of all ages . a simple story , if well done with lots of imagination , is more important than sophisticated computer generated effects and multimillion dollar voices . each one of the appliances is so adorable you will feel like filling adoption papers for them . the story ( thomas m . disch ) and the directing ( jerry rees ) could not have had better development or timing . only the pleasant but eminently forgettable songs in the film could have been better . the music itself is dramatic and effective . the drawing of the characters , especially their movement , has as much character as the snappy and intelligent dialog , which is a big compliment . watch , for example , how blanky slinks along and generally reminds you of a crawling baby . kirby even has big teeth where the dust goes in so that he can try to look tough - he is actually a gentle character . all of the characters have big soulful eyes that will capture your heart . blanky keeps his picture under the blanket at all times . the master is a lovable looking kid with red hair , glasses and a big smile . before he overheats and blows up , he complains of the others that , " the whole bunch of you must have a combined wattage of maybe five . it's scrap metal time . " this show is full of good lessons for kids as they learn the value of creativity and resourcefulness plus it is a lot of fun watching their failed attempts until they hit upon a successful plan . to which lampy replies , " well , that's reassuring . " lampy reflects , " i've never seen contraptions with so many dials and knobs before . " here the lesson is clear , the simpler things in life may actually be the best . from beginning to end the show is a delight . although i would give most of the credit to the writer and director , the simple but effective drawings add a lot . the characters and the landscape are carefully drawn , but never overly dramatic . the show is full of bright primary colors , and although there are a few evil characters in the show , the tone and message of the show is extremely upbeat . if you must have the dramatic realism of the lion king to like an animated feature film , then you may be disappointed by the brave little toaster . but if the characters are the most important part of a story to you , then you may fall in love with the brave little toaster as much as i did . it is correctly rated g . there is nothing to offend anyone . there are a few images like an appliance being taken apart and a metal crusher at a junk yard that might scare kids age 3 or under , but maybe not . certainly , jeffrey ( now 7 ) has loved the film for many years , and we watch it often . i absolutely love the show and would even if i didn't have kids . i give it my strongest recommendation and rate it a full * * * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : may 26 , 1996 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
okay , i realize that my fellow critics are giving thumbs down to independence day ( id4 ) , but i absolutely love it . although not as pretentious nor as good star wars , which is the show it most closely resembles , id4 is the best action and sci-fi thriller i have seen in a long time . it has devastation on a scale that is unmatched by any show i have ever seen , and yet the film is so controlled that kids as young as 7 should be able to see it and enjoy it as well as the adults . we bought tickets 10 minutes in advance for the 5 : 25 show in one of the three theaters showing id4 and got almost our favorite seats - in the center 10 rows from the screen . i will only setup the plot and give some of the dialog so you can get a flavor of the show , but without giving anything away . aliens come in a huge planetary size home that is one quarter the diameter of the moon . hollywood of late has two types of picture presidents . although he is about clinton's age , pilot whitmore is clearly not a clinton clone as douglas was in the american president , and there is even a hint in the movie that he is actually a republican . i liked pullman's performance . you think we'll get to washington , and it won't be there ? " california is not treated with much respect in the movie . after this is one of many great comedic scenes in the picture . the people in la are excited about the aliens coming . this is their kind of event . do you want it to be as a virgin ? " even more than the funny script by dean devlin and roland emmerich and the precise and energetic direction by roland emmerich , what makes the show burst with excitement are the special effects . the power and the scale of the effects outdoes the death star in star wars and the tornadoes in twister . actually the picture has aspects of these shows , plus many others ( testament , top gun , blade runner , dr . strangelove , etc . ) , but is never derivative . everything here fills fresh , and yet at its heart this is a classic sci-fi tale from the 50s . okay , now is the time to address the plausibility issue . if a film is good enough , you can ignore a lot of unlikely material . up until the solution is found to combat the alien invasion , i found the story reasonably believable . after that it became a bit tougher to suspend disbelieve , but , hey , this is not a national geographic special afterall . the hellish colors that cinematographer karl walter lindenlaub comes up with work great . the score by david arnold is dramatic , and it is probably worth buying the cd of it . my favorite actors in the show are will smith and bill pullman . the first is hilarious and smart , and the second wise and brave . watch how the writers tie that in with the rest of the story . independence day runs 2 : 22 , and i am glad they did not trim it down to make more money . it is rated pg-13 . the amazing thing to me was that i could have safely taken my 7 year old son jeffrey to see it . there is violence , but it is all of the non-threatening sci-fi variety . if your kids can handle balls of flames and cars blowing up and if they are not frightened at all by star wars , they are probably old enough to see independence day . my guess is that most kids 7 and up will love it as i did . there is no sex , nudity , or bad language that i can remember . i give this enjoyable and incredible film my strongest recommendation and top rating of * * * * . i don't care what the other critics that i respect say . this is a great film , and i am happy to be pushing it . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
after seeing the new live action pinocchio movie , the adventures of pinocchio to which i gave * * * , we decided to watch the disney original 1940 classic animated movie pinocchio since it is the reference standard . directors hamilton luske and ben sharpsteen's 1940 pinocchio is wonderful - full of beauty and tragedy . the moral lessons come fast and furious . she promises pinocchio that he can be a real boy and not just a live puppet if he is good . the carrot . the stick . unlike the remake , the original is much darker and more frightening . stromboli is extremely sinister . if the thought of some diabolical man bend on locking them up doesn't scare little kids , not much will . the show has more insidious characters like honest john . overall , the movie is a panoply of the inherent horrors of childhood and much more so than the remake , the 1940 original does not pull any punches in illustrating the consequences of immorality . the piece de resistance is pleasure island . all and all , this is a troubling but extremely well crafted film . reminds me of how movies , even today , stereotype people with southern accents like mine as being poor and stupid . there is so much more right with the movie that it is hard to know what all to include . just the infectiously happy and uplifting voice of jiminy cricket is certainly worth a mention . most scenes have little detailing and yet , the colors of the warm browns remind us of the wooded nature of the protagonist and the warmth suggest that redemption is his for the taking . the songs are all memorable and great . my favorites are " give a little whistle , " " when you wish upon a star , " and " an actor's life for me . " i have only one major criticism of the film . the whole monstro sequence runs way too long , especially the search for the whale . if they wanted to make the film longer , they could have added more in the front part . finally , i must be honest . as much as i like the character of pinocchio in this movie , i liked the character in the remake better . his movements are more interesting and the way he deals with some of the situations more imaginative . on whole , however , the remake is not near as good as the original . the main problem with the remake is that they downplay the morality issue which is the heart of the story . pinocchio runs 1 : 28 . it is rated g , but little kids may be frightened by the caging , the whale , and many of the darker images . i always include jeffrey's ( age 7 ) mini-review in my review . i forget this on the remake , the adventures of pinocchio . for reasons , which he was not able to articulate , he liked it better than the original pinocchio to which he gave only one thumbs up . personally , i give my strongest recommendation to pinocchio and rate it a full * * * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
courage under fire is the latest film from director edward zwick ( glory and legends of the fall ) . it is an extremely moving picture that left me with my heart racing and my arms clutching myself and staring at the screen . if you find yourself in tears at points as i was , do not be surprised . this is not a manipulative film , but a genuine one . denzel washington plays lieutenant colonel nathaniel serling in another brilliant performance by one of the best actors in the world today . he is vulnerable , charming , troubled , honest , confused , strong and scared , and these are only some of the ranges of emotions he displays . his performance alone is worth the seven dollar admission , but the show has much more to offer than just one good piece of acting . courage under fire is filled with marvelous acting , and the acting is not even the best part . this script succeeds not on a plethora of clever one liners , but on the fabric it creates . the show is a tribute to the ambiguity of life and especially of battle . it is an intricate puzzle that seems deceptively simple but is actually an escher print of a puzzle . it uses the cinematic technique of the story told from different viewpoints and with dramatic editing by steven rosenblum . this mixture of a pseudo-football huddle scene with a life and death situation puts the audience on notice that this picture is not one you will be able to take lightly . this is high energy entertainment certainly , but one with some heavy stories to tell . the script is superb in showing the natural confusion of battle . the non-investigation of this along with the colonel's remorse over it become the subtext of the plot . pinchot , whom i have had dinner with a couple of times and who can be extremely funny in the right roles , is terribly miscast here . the acting is exceptional although washington's is head and shoulders above everyone else . an impressive film with an exhilarating score to match . it is rated r for the violence of war and for some bad language . there is no sex or nudity . it would be fine for any teenager . i can not say enough good things about courage under fire . it is movie making at its finest . i hope to see zwick , washington , duncan and others getting awards for it . i give it my strongest recommendation and award it a full * * * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
the right stuff is so long that it took two nights to show it , but it was well worth it . nary a peep was heard during the entire film and most stayed awake . i had seen director philip kaufman's the right stuff years ago , but seeing it after having tried real astronaut training missions and simulators , it made his story of the united states space program more vivid than ever . this is a brilliant picture that works well on more levels that you can count , but an interest in space is not necessary for the film's enjoyment . they take normal material and try to make it into an epic by lack of enough editing . the right stuff is a true epic and earns the right to come at a little over three hours . instead , we see yeager as the sage who rejected the space program because it wasn't real flying , but who watched it from afar throughout all his life . shepard , in perhaps the best performance of his career , plays yeager as daring and yet humble , as quiet but assured , and overall he gives one of the most complex and compelling performances i have seen of a character who is a recluse . all of them did a fine job , but glenn , quaid , and ward really stand out . it is hard to enumerate all of the reasons the show is such a great film . the scale is enormous and the courage is striking . the script is laced with tons of natural humor . the exercises the astronauts have to go through are both exhausting and sometimes tedious , and the film transfers these experiences directly to the audience . the historical details you get are so extensive you will feel like the movie must have lasted ten hours , and yet like a page-turner of a novel , it is one that you will not want to leave . the cinematography by caleb deschanel is breathtaking , and the music by bill conti is broad and inspiring . the technical aspects of the film feel absolutely accurate . perhaps a few memorable scenes will give a feeling for the picture . he got into his tiny office , a space capsule so minuscule they say wore it rather than sat in it . the director said no , absolutely not . besides the humor of the scene , the look on shepard's face during all of it is priceless . being an astronaut was not easy in more was that you can ever imagine . this competition made for an interesting subplot . in another subplot , we have vice president lyndon johnson ( donald moffat ) supporting the program so he could make political hay off of it . overall , the film makes him into an opportunist and a buffoon . he is the grim reaper figure that appears at key moments in the picture . the right stuff runs 3 : 13 . it is rated pg . i belief it was rated before the pg-13 classification started . today , i think it would get a pg-13 rating for its couple of uses of the f word , the nudity of a fan dance scene , and the semen donation scene among others . all of this notwithstanding , i think and i have proof of it , that this film is fine for kids say six and up . i give it my strongest recommendation and my top rating of * * * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
in honor of my wife and my twenty-seventh wedding anniversary this past september the thirteenth , i am going to do something i've never done before . i am going to review a film i have not seen in ten years . since the true mark of a great movie is its ability to forever cast an indelible mark on our memory , reviewing a picture you haven't seen in a decade actually makes some sense . to this day , it is the only film i have seen more than four or five times . like trekies , we want to see the film constantly doing our courtship and could quote most of the lines . although i have long since lost count , i know the number of times we have seen the picture is between fifteen and twenty . we frequently would stay to see it twice in a row at the local mutliplex . a more romantic and realistic rendition of the nature of love , i have never seen . although the play " romeo and juliet " has been made into movies many times before and would be made again , no one has ever captured young love as zeffirelli did . first , the casting of two photogenic , talented , but unknown actors of the right age was the foundation upon which he created a masterpiece . with olivia hussey as juliet and leonard whiting as romeo he had the basic ingredients , but just having the right cast does not a masterpiece make . it only makes it possible . the only major actor was laurence olivier who was the narrator . all of the supporting cast were excellent , but pat heywood , john mcenery , milo o'shea , michael york were especially brilliant . mcenery's mercutio was a complex and bizarre reading that fit the spirit of the character perfectly . york's tybalt was excellent as a character not seeking a fight , but more than confident of his ability if forced by circumstances . it is interesting to note that only a few of these actors , including the stars , had much success after this film . when he presses juliet's hand at the dance , it is more erotic than many a scene today where the actors are all buck naked . finally , the balcony scene , which every student knows and probably thinks is trite , is made fresh in zeffirelli's capable hands . i liked the way zeffirelli handled this . he included it to show the reality of the situation , but editor reginald mills trimmed it down to just flash the scene on the screen before moving on . although it is clear from the beginning that this is a love affair that is destined for tragedy , when the tragedy does strike , the audience is crushed anyway . by the middle of the picture , it is impossible not to be in love with the two protagonists and thereby not want any harm to come to them . the ending is sad , but effective . this is the richest and most moving of any shakespeare play i have ever seen made for the screen , and as a critic , i have seen a lot of them . i can not leave this tribute to one of my absolute favorite pictures without mentioning a few of the outstanding technical aspects of the film . the lush and hazy cinematography by pasqualino de santis deservedly won the academy award that year . from the very first image , the audience is alerted that something special is about to unfold . the script by franco brusati , maestro d'amico , and franco zeffirelli is true to the play . brief sections of the play were removed to get the play down to the right length and pacing for a movie , but shakespeare's poetic language was not tampered with . the editing was flawless . the action sequences are full of energy , but never too choppy . the love scenes stay with the character perfectly . the academy award winning costumes by danilo donati are gorgeous . especially well done are the clothes worn at the dance and all of juliet's clothes . they are naturally lovely without being showy . finally , the music by nino rota is so memorable it leaves you with music and songs forever in your subconscious . i love the theme song and still hear it being played today . although i am sure i'll see it , it will probably feel like a sacrilege to this fan of zeffirelli's version . as always as a critic , i'll try to keep an open mind . it is not rated , but would probably get a pg today for the extremely brief nude scene and for the tragic theme . there is no sex or bad language . the picture would be fine for any kid old enough to be interested which is probably eight and up . i give this picture my strongest recommendation and my highest rating of * * * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
for reasons that partially escape me , this film had the same effect on me as the shawshank redemption . both were filled with marvelous performances and both had people in dire circumstances coping in ways that earned the empathy of their audience . the cliff's notes version of the film would be " revenge , " but if that makes you think of some cheap charles bronson action flick , then think again . the revenge here comes much later and in much more subtle and surprising ways . although certain portions are shocking , this is not one of those exploitive shows nor even one of the sensational , even if excellent shows like pulp fiction . for the record , let me say that i approached the film as fiction . it is reported to be based on fact , but whether it is or not is in some dispute . this is a great film regardless of its veracity . in fact , the single best part of the film is the highly literate script by levinson based on lorenzo carcaterra's novel . there is just enough humor in it to break the tension , but the script is filled with moving prose . told with heavy narration by lorenzo , a . a . i am going to resist the urge to tell you any more of the plot . you need to see the movie . few films have so many actors displaying their talent so effectively . i left the theater nothing short of amazed at what i had just seen . exquisitely crafted cinema . he also tells us that after seven years your record is purged so that you were never there and whatever happened , didn't . sleepers runs 2 : 32 , but feels like half that long since your eyes stay glued to the screen . sleepers is rated r for strong language , brief nudity , violence , and believable but not carefully done scenes of the rape of boys . teenagers , if they go , should be older and mature . i give this film my strongest recommendation and rate it a full * * * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : october 15 , 1996 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
when a book like michael ondaatje's " the english patient " wins awards and then goes on to become a major motion picture , it raises the old question of should you read the book before you check out the film . this assumes , of course , that you haven't already read the novel before the studios decide it is movie material . into the press screening yesterday most of the critics had their copies tucked under their arms like fundamentalist christians and their bibles . in theory i'd like to read the book in advance , but i rarely do . in the case of the english patient i am glad i didn't . because i didn't , i had no idea where the movie was going , but i did know that i was entranced by the voyage it was taking me on , and i was happy not to know its mysteries in advance . during this review , i will do , as i always do , and tell you none of the key twists and certainly less than the trailers and most professional reviewers will . some movies evoke a single word , and the english patient is one . the word here is enigma . each of the characters start as enigmas not only to the audience , but to themselves . by the end of the film , the mysteries are resolved , the characters have stolen your heart , and two great romances have blossomed . this is considerable more than the sum of three normal films . " my organs are packing up . i'm a bit of toast , " he warns hana . the tuxedoed geographers view this as an thrilling romp . the mark of great actors is what they can do with just their eyes . fiennes is far from a nazi , and thomas isn't playing her usual wallflower role . both are convincing as mysterious and sensuous romantics and adulterers . as the mark of a good author , ondaatje , and the highly literate screenplay by anthony minghella , can keep adding characters without making any of them superficial and without confusing the audience . in this show , that has the scope , feel , and look of lawrence of arabia , even more characters are introduced . the desert is a star of the film as much as the actors , and it is just as perplexing . i could write the whole review on the cinematography , but let me just dwell on a couple of highlights . the rose-hued scenes of the desert in the morning and evening glow and by light of the campfires at night is stunning , and the aerial sequences are breathtaking . seale's camera is perhaps best as it caresses the actors in the close-ups . he creates many scenes of precious beauty . gabriel yared's music is dreamy , romantic , and majestic with lots of harps solos , violins , and staccato piano . all of the acting is incredible , but none is on par with fiennes . his intensity is almost that of a james wood , and yet he hardly speaks . katherine complains to the count that , " you speak so many bloody languages , and you never want to talk . " director anthony minghella ( truly madly deeply ) has crafted a masterpiece with the english patient . this is an absorbing and moving cinematic experience with a single flaw . eventually , it does end . the english patient runs 2 : 42 which is just the right length . very few films need to be longer than two hours , but this one does . it is true epic . the film is rated r for some war violence , some sex , some nudity , and a little bad language . it is a great and absorbing picture and fine for teenagers . i loved this show . i give the film my highest recommendation and award it a full * * * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
it number one on my best of the year list for 1989 , but since i wasn't a movie critic then , i never wrote a review of it . truly , he could read the encyclopedia , and people would pay to listen . the secret of this movie is the star , the screenwriter , and the director , namely kenneth branagh . i've thought about what it is that makes his henry v come alive so , and it may come down to the basics . every word is clear and forceful even when he speaks in whispers . most shakespearean actors run through their lines in a blur as if either they have so much to say they have to talk fast or , more likely , they don't fully comprehend them all . branagh gives the impressions that he has been studying the bard's original folios since birth . any film that is smart enough to get simon rattle and the birmingham symphony to do the music has already proven their seriousness of purpose . for those of you not familiar with them , rattle and his orchestra are arguably the best mahlerian interpreters in the music world today . their sounds in the film are full of power and energy that further illuminate and enhance the action . the interior scenes are not only lit strictly with candles , but the light even flickers on the players as real candles would . this all combines to give the king the aura of a god . since i am about branagh's height , i thought , now that's how i'd like to be framed . actually , branagh's physical appearance makes gives him a unique force of presence . his thin lips almost vanish as he speaks which force the viewers attention even more on his words . his facial expressions radiate confidence . you see him , and you believe . branagh , the director , is a master at opening up the bard's plays . the interior scenes are intimate , but it is in the exterior where his directorial genius shines . his outdoor scenes are full of power to complement the words that are spoken . there are also realistic . his battle of agincourt becomes a mud bowl and the march to it even worse . my favorite is dench who steals her scenes with her perky and silly little mannerisms . is not their climate foggy , raw and dull ? " as the battle of agincourt ends , an exhausted henry confesses to the french envoy mountjoy ( christopher ravenscroft ) , " i know not if the day be ours or no . " i could go on and on about this film . the rest of the cast is outstanding . even the small details like the sounds of the rush of the arrows in the battle is impressive . a film to be seen and savored , again and again . it is rated pg for some tastefully done , but realistic war violence . there is no sex , nudity , or bad language . the film would be fine for any kid old enough to be interested in the play . i give the picture my strongest recommendation and rate it * * * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
viewers will be whispering the same sentiments to themselves as they sit through the movie . rarely has the cinema been this powerful , this engrossing , and this painful to watch . the filmmakers were afforded a unique opportunity that they used to maximum effect . the editing of the film is flawless . it serves only to enlighten and never to confuse . if there is a mistake made in the film , it is that the filmmakers are somewhat more sympathetic to the defendant's arguments than to the prosecution's , but it is on whole , a well-balanced documentary . although the film is unrated , it is nc-17 material . the shocking video and still pictures of the crime scene are essential to showing graphically how heinous were the actions of the killers , but they are suitable for viewing only by mature adults . even hardened critics like i frequently have to look away . sickening . sickening . and yet , i am glad the show was this explicit . the truth is horrible , and should not be censored . people should know how bad it is . in the press kit , the filmmakers argue that the reason they feel their approach is not gratuitous is that " our society has become so desensitized to news reports of violent crime that we felt it was important that the viewer really feels and emotionally recognizes the horrific nature of the crime . " i concur . although there are many surprises at the trials , i will not give anything away other than that necessary to set up the cases . suffice it to say , that you would not like to have not been called to serve on either jury . if you had been , the phrase " reasonable doubt " and the pictures of the little boys would be indelibly marked on your brain and would forever making your sleeping difficult . this is backwoods arkansas . the people in the film are uniformly poor and naive . fundamentalist christianity is prominently featured in the film . before you decide if you think this is a potentially valid line of reasoning , see the trial first . it is not as simple as it sounds . as i watched the film , i thought how i would have walked out had it been a fictional show . people like these do not exist , and the actors are shamelessly overacting . except this is exactly what happened and as it happened . in the second trial the evidence looks as if it may be mainly circumstantial , and the big question is whether the prosecution can get jessie misskelly to testify . rather than evoking tears , the film is more likely to make your emotional systems rupture because it is so hard to take in all that is arrayed before you . clearly one of the best films of the year , and certainly the hardest of them all to endure . it is unrated but would be nc-17 . it has some of the most horrendous images you will ever see . do not let your teenagers go . period . i give the film my absolute top rating of * * * * and say people should see it if they are up to it . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : december 2 , 1996 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
sometimes you are fortunate to see something so special and unusual that you have trouble writing about it . kenneth branagh's new hamlet affected me that way . every time i picked up my notes to finish writing about it , i would switch to some other review instead . ( during the christmas season , there are so many films opening that i stay behind . sometimes i even have three press screenings at once . you can see why the new york times needs three film critics to cover all the movies . ) so why is there all this buzz about yet another adaptation of william shakespeare's " hamlet " ? afterall , there have been twenty-eight hamlet movies already . surely there is no longer anything new to say . four hours plus a twenty minute intermission to be precise . granted , that for those who hate shakespeare , the idea of sticking around this long will sound like masochism . yet , even people not enamored with the bard may be as blown away by this film as was i . let me explain . branagh chose the film's length for two reasons . first , he wanted to break with tradition and do a full text version of the play . this means that viewers would get to enjoy the many minor scenes that directors eliminate because of time considerations . second , he wanted to allow enough time for the play to breathe . this is the groundbreaking idea that makes the play so uniquely accessible . hamlet has more lines worth pondering than ten other plays , but usually the listener can not pause to reflect on them because the actors are flying through their lines so they can get the movie completed within a traditional length . never i have i understood or appreciated hamlet so completely , and i predict that others fortunate enough to see the movie in its full four hour length will feel the same way . there is much history behind the running time . let me summarize what i heard about it . branagh wanted a four hour version , but the distributors and the theater owners thought it would be a financial disaster for them . normally they could fill the theater twice during that period . moreover , the shorter version will be a 35mm print , whereas the longer will be the original 70mm . we were supposed to see the 70mm four hour version , but the print was " stuck in london , " so we saw a 35mm print of the four hour version instead . like sergio leone's once upon a time in america ( 1984 ) , which has both a truncated and a full length version , the longer one is the one is see . i would drive hours to see the four hour version of hamlet . given there was a massive storm the day i saw it , that is exactly what i did and was it ever worth it . this adaptation of the play is set in the nineteenth century . the exterior scenes were shot at blenheim palace where they used more artificial snow than any movie in history . yes , even more than doctor zhivago . ( the press kit assures us that it is " environmentally friendly " fake snow so you needn't be troubled by that while watching the picture . ) the music by patrick doyle ( sense and sensibility and henry v ) has a haunting and lovely theme as well as dramatic parts full of kettle drums , horns , and wailing choirs . beautifully sad and majestic music so memorable that you may want to buy the cd , the cinematography by alex thomson makes you feel the warmth of the interior and the cold of the exterior . branagh said he did not want " gloomy castles and dour costumes , " and his crew delivered . the sets are as inviting as the text is compelling . branagh is my favorite shakespearean actor and director . anyone doubting his abilities should see his brilliant henry v , which remains his best acting ever . branagh brings an intensity and a focused approach that illuminates every word he speaks . nay it is ; i know not 'seems . ' " his thin lips quiver as he delivers the lines , and he appears as if he may explode at any moment . every actor puts his stamp on shakespeare's most famous lines , " to be , or not to be . " he delivers the speech in a mirror with the camera focused on the mirrored imaged rather than directly on him . as is appropriate , branagh is the star about which the other performers revolve . appropriate both because of his position in the play and because of his talent . nevertheless , the other luminaries in this star studded sky are worth mention and perhaps some oscar consideration . branagh says he purposely cast the film with a host of big names to ensure the audience can " look and see and hear with greater clarity " even the minor roles . i want to get the one exception to this rule out of the way quickly since it is my only criticism of the film . luckily , lemmon has only a few minutes of screen time . the rest of the actors range from quite good to exceptional . besides those already mentioned , derek jacobi gives a controlled and effective reading of the malevolent claudius . interesting choice since jacobi's signature role was as emperor claudius in " i , claudius . " that performance left an indelible mark on his memory of how the play was so " exciting , sexy , dangerous , and violent . " kate winslet ( heavenly creatures , sense and sensibility , and jude ) delivers the best performance of her short but talented career as the fragile and vulnerable ophelia . when ophelia goes mad , you believe it . charlton heston and rosemary harris are perfectly cast as the player king and queen . robin williams is quite funny in the small part of osric , but billy crystal underplays the comic role of the first gravedigger . an incredible motion picture experience . movies this good remind us of the power of the medium . see the four hour version . and try to see the 70mm version that i missed . 70mm gives images a three dimensional realism that the smaller 35mm format can never bring out . i have trouble imagining a more striking visual that the 35mm print i saw . you could see something even better . it is rated pg-13 . there is brief sex , some nudity , and violence . the film would fine for kids say nine or ten and up . i recommend this film to you in the strongest terms whether you like shakespeare or hate him , and i give it my top rating of * * * * . do not miss this film . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
" i'm going to shake the dust of this crummy little town off my feet . i'm going to see the world then i'm going to build things . " in the great frank capra's classic 1946 movie it's a wonderful life , george will never get to follow any of these dreams . no matter how bad he wants something , he is so selfless that he will give up everything to help his fellowman . none of this is ever to be for george , but by the show's conclusion george will come to realize what a wonderful life he has anyway . set mainly in a cold and snowy environment and with the show's conclusion at christmas eve , it's a wonderful life is a great film for the holidays . although sometimes bordering on the maudlin , it remains a beautifully uplifting story and a sweet little comedy as well . george's buildings and loan provides low cost loans that the townsfolk use to become home owners rather than renters . although potter is already " so rich he can never spend it all , " he wants more . james stewart's academy award nominated performance is what most people remember from the movie , but there is so much more . the lighting shines on her face in such a way that you will swear her face is lit from within . this scene has a wonderfully innocent sensuality to it without ever showing any flesh or using any provocative language . film makers today are incapable of anything this subtle when it comes to romance . it at this point in the story that george snaps , and what was a pleasant comedy is transformed into a great film . as clarence puts it , " you've been given a great gift , george . a chance to see what the world would be like without you . " mr . potter is richer than ever and the town poorer . the show ends in a miracle as true as the human spirit that the film embodies . it's a wonderful life runs 2 : 09 , and i loved every minute of it . it is not rated but would get a g . there is no sex , nudity , or profanity . the violence consists of one punch thrown in anger . " it was an okay movie , " said my son jeffrey , age 7 1/2 . " the only part i really liked was when they were kids . " he gave it a thumbs sideways . to enjoy the film kids probably need to be a little bit older than jeffrey . this simple story full of old fashioned , but nevertheless , relevant values is exceptional . i recommend it strongly to you and give it a full * * * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
until we rented it over the holidays , i had not seen it in its entirety in a couple of decades . this part of the movie has a capraesque quality . too often child actors are no more than cute , sometimes painfully so . all three of these kids give skillful performances of real depth . it seems boo is the local bogeyman , or so all the kids believe . boo lives in a house that reminds you of the house in psycho . even if it does not look at all similar , it feels much the same . only brave kids , like tomboy scout , dare get near the porch , much less on it . do you remember who plays boo ? it is robert duvall in his first movie part . he does not speak a word and is not even seen until the end , but his role in the film is crucial . elmer bernstein's music for the film remind us of the magic and the simplicity of that time . the crickets outside will almost lull you to sleep , but knowing that danger or tragedy is just around the corner , you dare not blink an eye . there were tire swings in the front yard , and front porches with rocking chairs or swings were de rigueur . the kids in this picture have more in common with those of tom sawyer's era than today's . in a film bursting at the seams with great performances , brock peters's small role is acted with brilliance . the acting by paxton and anderson is chillingly effective as well . their performances are strong and believable without the natural tendency to overact their parts as villains . it is done with devastating force , but without the theatrics we have become to associate with trials . the secondary event happens near the end , but i can not describe it without giving it away so i will say no more . second only to the quality of the acting is the precise and lucid direction by robert mulligan and the literate and academy award winning script by horton foote , based on the book by harper lee . the entire show is a masterpiece crafted with loving care . a show that must be seen . and seen again . it is not rated , but would probably be pg-13 . there is no sex , nudity , or profanity . there are mature themes and some frightening scenes of people being chased and grabbed . the movie would probably be appropriate for kids nine or ten and up . i know it would have frightened the daylights out of my seven and a half year old had we let him watch it . i recommend the movie to you in the strongest possible terms , and i award the film a full * * * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
i saw howard stern's movie at the press screening , and i laughed through almost every minute of it . first , let me assure my loyal readers that i have not been cloned . my evil twin is not the one writing this review , and i have not lost my mind . before seeing howard stern's movie , called private parts , i had never seen nor listened to howard stern even for a single minute . moreover , i was absolutely sure that i had no desire to ever see him . i was so sure that his humor would be gross and mean spirited that if there had been a conflict with another press screening , as there frequently is , i would have gone to see the other film instead -- any other film . well , private parts was the biggest pleasant surprise for me in a quite a while . yes , the film is certainly outrageous , but so was airplane ! and yes , howard is shocking . i would postulate that howard stern is one of the funniest and sweetest people around . although i laughed so hard that i even got choked , the biggest surprise for me was how tender and good spirited the show is even at its most audacious . " we never went to ballgames , " reminisces howard . " the only sport my dad liked was yelling . " this gave howard his tough skin and his obsession with being liked . howard's antics , like those of any class clown , are disguised , plaintive cries to be wanted and be popular . needless to say , the audience is so shocked and enraged that they can't take their eyes off the stage . howard's movie isn't just about howard . the film is careful to focus in on his supporting crew , especially robin quivers and fred norris . robin gives a marvelously compelling performance in the film . there are seven words you can not say on the air so he must stop saying them . so what does he do ? ( for example , if i say hoover , you would say dam . this is not used in the movie , but it is the only g rated one i could think of to give you the idea . ) how long does the average listener stay tuned to the same station ? 18 minutes . for howard it is an hour and twenty minutes . well , how about the howard haters , the managers ask , since there are a lot of those ? laments howard . even earning a fortune and having millions of fans , he still worries that people will think he is just a moron . i do not want to mislead you . the show manages to insult just about everyone . still , the humor is non-stop , and based on the theater audience's reactions , people respond extremely well to his jokes . go with an open mind , and you may not be able to control yourself . howard's film raises comedy to a new level . i will reject the urge to recount more of the film's crazy antics and let you experience it yourself as i did . as i left the theater i began to recount my favorite scene to my friend i had taken with me . as soon as i laughed my way through one , i kept remembering another that was even better . if the film had had one tenth the humor or one fourth the likeableness of its stars , i would have counted it a success . the movie it most reminded of was people vs . larry flynt , but i liked private parts better . an incredible and unique experience . an infectiously happy show . howard teaches us to laugh at everything in life . a more likable group i haven't seen in a long time . it is rated r for strong language , dope smoking , crude sexual humor , and nudity . teenagers will probably love it , but make sure they are mature enough for the material . i give the film my strongest recommendation and my top rating of * * * * . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
even today , it remains a popular video rental in this country . the press kit likens its restoration work to that for the hugely popular star wars special edition series . rather than add visuals to existing scenes as lucas did , petersen includes much more already existing footage . the original release of das boot ran 2 : 29 . the director's cut adds a full hour , and the rumor is that the director originally wanted to add two hours . what is similar to the star wars restoration is the treatment of the sound . petersen and company completely redesigned and re-recorded new sound effects . the result is impressive . the original sound received one of the film's five oscar nominations so the foundation for the digital remastering is substantial . there is no question that the changed sound improves the picture . toward the end of the review , i'll compare the original with the remake in terms of the material added . in many films the director does not play a dominant role ; liar liar was one recent example . in others , such as last year's secrets & lies , the director takes total control and molds the film into his vision . he went on to hollywood where he came up with several thrillers -- the best being in the line of fire with clint eastwood , john malkovich , and rene russo . the trailers look quite promising . prochnow gives a brilliant performance as the stoic captain who takes a cynical view of the war and his role in it . " like i'm on a children's crusade . " even with a large cast , the director manages to make the characters distinguishable and engaging . the simple but chillingly realistic script succeeds not through its memorable lines , of which there are precious few , but because of the situations it creates . the ensemble cast does the rest . remember , a submarine is like library . there is no talking allowed when it is open for business . instead of dialog we have some of the most complex and emotive facial expressions in any film . petersen says his vision for the film was , " to show the gritty and terrible reality of war and to combine it with a highly entertaining story and fast-paced action style that would pull audiences into the experience of these young men . " no matter whose side you were on in ww ii , these actors earn your empathy . moreover , petersen's engrossing storytelling abilities will have you on the edge of your seat for the entire picture . during the battle scenes i found my mouth kept hanging open as i wondered if this was going to be the depth charge that would blow them to smithereens . in 1982 das boot was the most expensive german film ever made up to that time . the result aimed for realism , not flash . the chief criticism of the picture stems from its main attribute : it is , arguably , the most claustrophobic film ever constructed . and yet , many small scenes , such as the one of the crew singing their favorite song , " it's a long way to tipperary , " illustrates the crew's humanity . although certainly a technical tour de force , the film occupies a much more important place in cinematic history . it shows up on many best films of all times lists , and other directors like steven spielberg cite its influence on their work . in one of the best anti-war films ever , there is no preaching against war . the film makes its powerful statement without needing to proclaim its message . when the movie was originally released i saw it first with subtitles and then in a dubbed version . although the dubbing was well done , the subtitled version is much better . and , i am thankful to report , the director's cut is subtitled . one of the beauties of it having been fifteen years since i saw the movie is that i had forgotten most of the details and remembered only the impressions it made on me . i will not reveal the ending in the hopes that you either have forgotten it or have never seen it . i found the ending surprising , but perfect . i promised to tell you which version i preferred -- the original or the director's cut . first , let me say that i cannot imagine your not wanting to see this director's cut if you have any serious interest in film . it is an expansive vision of a seminal picture that demands to be seen . i loved the director's cut and give it my highest rating . all of this notwithstanding , the original version with its tighter focus is the better of the two . the restoration , however , does have the improved soundtrack , and the original can no longer be seen in theaters . although das boot is a picture that can work on a small screen , its impact can only be fully felt in a theater . see it before it moves to video . i suspect its theatrical run will be brief so act now or you may never again have the chance . it is rated r for war violence , rear male nudity and some profanity . it would be fine for teenagers . i give the film my strongest recommendation and top rating of * * * * . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
" i believe in america , " says bonasera , the undertaker . " america has made my fortune . " marlon brando , in the classic american movie the godfather , is vito corleone , godfather to many and patriarch of a large and loyal family . for its 25th anniversary the movie has been re-released to the theaters with a new print but not much visible restoration . nevertheless , epic films exist to be seen on a big screen , and the godfather reflects director francis coppola's vision of a picture both vast and intimate . the corleone family represents the ideal american family -- loyal and loving . " it's not me . " and if we don't get a piece of that action , we risk everything we have -- i mean not now , but ah ten years from now . " duvall and all of the actors in the film are perfectly cast . dressed sometimes in just a sleeveless undershirt , his performance smolders as if a personal firestorm is always imminent . brando won the academy award for his performance , and it is his signature role . watch especially how delicate and pronounced are his hand gestures -- the subtle movement of his fingertips in front of his mouth when thinking and the placing of his hand solemnly on his heart when making a promise . done by someone less capable than coppola , the movie would have become just an impressive gangster movie -- full of large scale violence . certainly it is that , but the beauty of the godfather is in the intimacy and realism of the script . " don't forget the cannoli ! " work that day consists of seeing that an errant coworker has his brains blown out . the family side is full of celebrations filmed in gorgeous autumnal colors and with beautiful sets . the great nino rota's music similarly blends delightful , almost folk music with somber funeral cadences . william reynolds's editing deserves a special mention with two particularly stunning scenes coming to mind . one of the messages of the film is the duality of man , and no sequence in the film illustrates it better than this one . the godfather is a seminal film in the american cinema . examining the meaning of family , violence , love , betrayal , and loyalty just to name a few , its quality set a standard that few films have matched . an unforgettable motion picture , but one worth seeing again and again . the godfather runs just the right length at 2 : 55 . it is rated r for violence , profanity , nudity , and sex . the violence can be quite shocking so i would recommend the film for teenagers only if they can handle its intensity . i give this classic film my strongest recommendation and a full * * * * . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . review written on : april 13 , 1997 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
the conventional wisdom is that movie sequels are never as good as the original , and the common belief among most critics is that the godfather : part ii ( 1974 ) represents the classic exception to that rule . as strong and innovative as was the godfather ( 1972 ) , most reviewers prefer its successor . ( since i recently had the opportunity to see both on the big screen again , i'll discuss in the end of this review whether i subscribe to this logic . ) unlike the linear structure of the original , part ii has two parallel stories spanning two different time periods . in an uncredited role , caan does appear briefly in a flashback sequence in part ii . ) al pacino , who was nominated for academy awards for both pictures but won neither , approaches his more mature role quite differently from the way he did in the original . this time he plays it much more soft spoken and self-assured . the beauty of the performance can be heard with the tone of his voice and seen in his lips . in most of the film he speaks as a caesar . he does not need to justify , he needs only to ask , and it shall be done . his clear but low enunciation is that of someone who has the power to make people hang on his every word . most actors confuse shouting with overacting and have trouble separating the two , but not pacino , at least not in this role . " i've learned that i have the strength to change . " de niro's subtle acting is nevertheless powerful in his exploration of the birth of evil in a person . he turns the film into a coming of age drama , but not the normal saccharine one . theadora van runkle's costume for fanucci with his fancy white suit and large brimmed hat sets up the character so perfectly that the acting is of almost secondary importance . the script by francis ford coppola and mario puzo and the editing by barry malkin , richard marks , and peter zinner takes care not to rush either of the two stories . typically , either a film is told almost totally in flashback or flashbacks happen briefly and then it is back to the main storyline . the subplot of the young vito in part ii takes perhaps a quarter of the movie and the sequences go on so long , that when you see the movie for the first time , it is easy to convince oneself that most of the movie may be set in vito's early life . the original and the sequel contain perfect symmetry without ever seeming repetitious . ( this church linkage , which the first two suggest but never explore , is developed into the main theme in the fairly unsuccessful part iii -- remember that sequel rule . ) both films end in a hail of violence with the editing interlacing and carefully sequencing a stream of deaths . although the first's ending was more like a goetterdammerung , both are powerful and effective . most people get lost during this part of the story , but i think that is what director francis ford coppola wanted . if you are part of the mob , it is rarely clear who are your friends and who aren't . this ambiguity is endemic to crime families . " people behaving like that with guns . " roth's best line is his boast to michael on the size of their crime empire -- " we're bigger than u . s . steel ! " ( this could be considered the most dated line in the film . " if history has taught us anything , it is that you can kill anyone . " nino rota's music , conducted by carmine coppola , has great imagery from romantic and nostalgic to foreboding . it's the type that has you humming the tunes when you leave , but moves you while you are watching the film . gordon willis's cinematography again uses low natural light to create ominous shadows indoors and bright colors outdoors to cast a false sense of security about the corleone family . is it true that most sequels pale in significance to the original ? absolutely . the batman series is one of many such examples . but is the godfather : part ii an exception ? yes and no . i am a big fan of both pictures , but prefer the original slightly for its originally and the intensity of the character's emotions . the sequel is more cerebral which is not bad , but it lacks some of the punch of the original . but , these are two great movies so which is better is probably unimportant anyway . the godfather : part ii runs 3 : 20 , but feels no longer than most run-of-the-mill hour and a half shows . it is rated r for graphic violence and profanity . i give the film my strongest recommendation and my top rating of * * * * . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
nicolas roeg's mesmerizing 1971 film walkabout exists on a different and higher plane than traditional films . until very recently this classic film was not available on tape and the theatrical version available in america did not have the nude scenes which are essential to the show's almost spiritual essence as they illustrate the girl's becoming one with nature . we were privileged to see the full length version recently at a local repertory theater , but the video version , released by home vision cinema , is also the complete australian original . although director and cinematographer roeg approaches the material as if it were a dream , the actions have a poetic truth as well as a lyrical beauty . some may find parts of the story confusing , but all of them make sense if you think about them long enough . unlike today's typically transparent films , walkabout expects that the viewers will be so engrossed by the story that they will be willing to invest the energy to think through what is happening . we certainly were . the best performance is by jenny agutter . she oozes a natural charm and sexuality without ever being flirtatious . at that age where she has the body of a woman but the limitations of someone still a schoolgirl , she displays remarkable resilience and maturity . her acting leaves an impression on you long after you leave the theater . why she has only gotten small parts in dozens of minor films since remains a mystery . the unusual camera angles and antony gibbs' and alan patillo's editing immediately put the audience on notice that this is no ordinary film . sometimes shots are frozen so that the images left have the blur of motion . one of the many themes of the picture is the duality of human life as part of both the civilized world and the animal kingdom . this is illustrated in many ways but most frequently by dwelling on animals eating other animals , in nature as well as in the city . cuts between a butcher chopping meat and an animal devouring its kill are typical . " it's silly to give in now . it can't be much further . " of course , it is . " that's as simple as i can make it . anybody can understand that . " along the way , the sexual tension between the two teenagers builds until you are sure it will explode , but it doesn't . the result is a beautifully erotic movie where not even a kiss is exchanged . one could easily write a long essay on this richly textured movie , but words cannot fully express what is mainly a visual experience . the script by edward bond , based on the novel by john vance marshall , uses images for dialog . words are rarely spoken except for the brother who sometimes starts babbling , but these words are more background noise . the interest in the show is the focus on the girl and the aborigine . the chemistry between them is strong , and their few words are more than sufficient . to complement the sparseness of the spoken word , the music by four time academy award winner john barry has a majesty reflective of the film's beautiful landscapes and charming wildlife . the movie even includes my favorite australian animal , the cute little wombat . after a surprising but effective ending , the show wraps up with a sentimental epilogue . like the rest of the show , both are quite confusing until you think about them some . in the day since i've seen the film , i cannot put it out of my mind . its images continue to be savored , and i will never forget the three travelers through the desert . it is not rated but would be an r . the film would be excellent for teenagers . i strongly recommend this fascinating piece of filmmaking to you and give it my top rating of a full * * * * . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . review written on : june 15 , 1997 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
the movie air force one should require a doctor's approval , for those with weak hearts may not make it . just ten minutes into the movie , my heart was racing and goose pimples had flared up all over my body . although there would be brief interludes when i was able to relax , most of the show found my adrenaline pumping right along with president james marshall's . after the show ended i found myself gasping for breath and trying hopelessly to reconnect with the real world . i had just been through such an incredible experience that i found it hard to believe i was sitting in a theater . the director of air force one is the great wolfgang petersen . his das boot is a cinematic masterpiece that blends heart-stopping action with the story of real people in peril . so it is with air force one , easily the best action picture of the year , but thanks to petersen's meticulous direction and first-time screenwriter andrew w . marlowe's well laid out script , the human equation is even more compelling . the intelligent and clever script has enough humor to break the tension periodically . harrison ford is the president , and a darn good one , based on this movie . in short , ford delivers one of his best performances ever . next to the direction , his acting is the second best part of the film . the story does cause one to suspend disbelief a bit , but the story as delivered feels plausible even if there are many parts one could quibble with . indiana jones and the temple of doom was full of ridiculous aspects but that did not detract from its beauty and neither do the small liberties air force one takes with the situation . even if you haven't seen the trailers , an unlikely situation , you know that oldman's specialty is bad guys . when all hell breaks loose in the cabin , knowing it is inevitable does not lessen the tension one iota . petersen can stage action sequences so realistic that they seem to literally suck the audience into the scene . ivan korshunov , the leader of the russian dissidents , played by oldman doing what he does best -- terrorists and lunatics , could not have been better cast . " don't lecture me on the articles of war . " in a tiny but crucial role jurgen prochnow , the u-boat skipper from das boot , plays general radek . petersen gets so many of the small details perfect . bravery rarely appears on the screen anymore , bravado having replaced it . petersen brings back old fashioned bravery and makes it credible . people in my charged-up audience were applauding sporadically throughout the film . and laughing occasionally at its humor . easily the funniest line is ford's . speaking in quasi-code , marshall tells bennett , " kathryn , if you give a mouse a cookie . " in a show that never flags for a moment , the endgame does not disappoint . although the film is developed into a seamless whole rather the traditional configuration of setup , body , and conclusion . the suspense builds and the tension ratchets up until the end . i have not seen a better movie this year . it is rated r for some bloody images , but overall i found the violence realistic but never overdone or gory . the film would be fine for teenagers . i was blown away by the picture so i give it my strongest recommendation and my top rating of * * * * . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
" well , jones , at least you haven't forgotten how to show a lady a good time ! " and steven spielberg in 1981 knew how to show an audience a good time with an old fashion kids' adventure yarn , raiders of the lost ark . think of it as a high quality version of one of the old movie serials that kids used to get every saturday at the theater before the double feature . ( too young to know what a movie serial was like ? check out my recent review of the 1949 serial batman and robin -- not to be confused with this summer's blockbuster by the same name . ) the plot of raiders of the lost ark is utter balderdash . it makes as much sense as most kids' stories , and this one is so brilliantly and engrossingly executed , who cares how ridiculous it is ? ( my wife and i were once chased in austria by a boulder the size of the one from the famous scene in the film . so even the seemingly ludicrous can sometimes be true . ) with his rugged good looks and his signature outfit of big hat , leather jacket and bull whip , indy is a picture perfect action hero . the film must have provided gainful employment for scores and scores of stunt actors as action sequences come in increasing intensity as the show progresses . allen has a charming toughness that can be strong and sexy at the same time . in more recent times linda fiorentino has demonstrated some of these same macho but alluring qualities , and she too has had trouble breaking through into significant stardom . the film's other roles are less important , and only paul freeman , as the too milquetoast villain rene belloq , gives a disappointingly bland performance . john williams's rousing but playful music and the imaginative script by big chill writer lawrence kasdan , based on a story by george lucas and philip kaufman , combine to make a fun romp . a roller coaster of a film , it loves to play tricks on its audience . the cinematography of stone images filmed in warm blues and browns is punctuated by bright flashes of lightning representing the wrath of god . the cataclysmic ending descends too far into the realm of an overstaged horror show but is effective nevertheless . actually , saturday movie serials were never this good , but we'd like to believe they were . it was rated pg since i think there was no pg-13 at the time . today , a show with this much violence would be firmly in the pg-13 category . depending on how well they handle scary scenes like snakes crawling through skeletons , kids as young as 7 may be able to handle the film . my son jeffrey , age 8 , thought the movie was " good but pretty bloody , " and he wished there would have been less blood . i strongly recommend this adventure to you and give it a full * * * * . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . review written on : august 21 , 1997 
in a time of bloated productions where special effects have become the movies' real stars , going back to a classic like director sidney lumet's 12 angry men can remind viewers what movie making is supposed to be about -- acting . the script by reginald rose is firmly rooted in the 1950s , but , like a shakespearean play , most of the lines reveal deeper meanings and hidden truths . arguably one of the best early television dramas was the original 1954 " studio one " version of 12 angry men . the only link between the two is reginald rose's script which was kept almost totally intact . the cast and the director changed , but the story stayed the same . and what a story . ( the showtime cable network recently remade the story , and , being smart enough to use basically the same script , managed to make an interesting film , albeit not in the same league as the original two . ) the rich drama with minimalist sets occurs almost completely within the confines of a jury room . the incredibly strong ensemble cast for the jury includes : henry fonda , lee j . cobb , ed begley , e . g . when he comes to the part about a reasonable doubt , he repeats it with such an emphasis that he seems to be suggesting that any doubt they may have in their minds about the defendant's guilt is probably not reasonable . the accused , played with big , soulful eyes by john savoca , never speaks , but his sunken , despondent demeanor says it all . if you didn't know better , you could assume they were reviewing some movie they had seen . none of them seems to be concerned in the least that the defendant's life is at stake . this voice of reason comes from a juror played by henry fonda , giving a resolute and perfect performance that should have at least gotten him an academy award nomination for best actor , but didn't . sidney lumet was nominated for best director but lost to david lean for the bridge on the river kwai . and the best picture award was lost the same way . easily the biggest shame was that reginald rose's script -- an absolute classic -- lost to the excellent but lesser one for the bridge on the river kwai . " you can't refute facts . " his banker's glasses , one of the film's few props , turn out to be key to the case's solution . although most jurors are known by the intensity of their convictions , robert webber plays someone who works in advertising and views serving on a jury no more seriously that he would concocting a laundry soap jingle . he will abstain from the second ballot , and if they all vote guilty , so will he . the beauty of rose's script is that we come to know each of the jurors by the end of the deliberations . most writers would gloss over some of them to concentrate on a few , but rose gives each a unique personality and background . boris kaufman's intimate , black-and-white cinematography makes each member of the audience feel like a 13th juror . and the wailing , solo flute music by kenyon hopkins provides a somber atmosphere without ever overpowering . my only complaint with lumet's direction is that the last holdout for guilty is allowed to convert all too abruptly . it is not rated but would be pg for mature themes . the show would be fine for any child old enough to be interested in such a serious story . i give the film my top recommendation and rating of * * * * . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
