this bit of lame physical humor is typical of disney's meet the deedles , a movie more to be endured that watched . and she's right , it is that bad . ) directed without any imagination by steve boyum , whose long background in film is mainly in stunts and in second unit direction , the film limps along at best . boyum attempts to keep the pace moving by staging stunts , stunts and more stunts . amazingly for someone with his background , he seems incapable of finding any fresh ones , and we have a car go off the road five different times -- maybe more . and then there is the script by james herzfeld , whose only other film , tapeheads from a decade ago , was so awful that it is considered a cult classic . meet the deedles , however , is painfully bad rather than laughably bad . it will probably be in and out of the theaters like a tornado and is in no danger of becoming a classic anything . herzfeld treats us to gratingly abysmal dialog that includes " your geyser's a geezer , " and " i'd like to put a deedle in her haystack . " hopper , who has made some wonderful movies , carried away being a recent favorite , does have a propensity for choosing some truly odoriferous material . this isn't his worst acting , but meet the deedles is arguably the worst movie he's ever been in . steve van wormer and paul walker , as stew and phil , give lifeless performances . the only actor in the movie with any demonstrable talent is a cute little prairie dog named petey . even the cinematography by david hennings is so prosaic that it manages to make yellowstone look dull . to add insult to injury , hennings is fond of inappropriate close-ups , which only serve to remind us of the inanity of the dialog . put a ten-foot pair of lips on the screen , and you naturally pay extra attention to what is said . although boyum says in the notes that he is proud that his film is appropriate for families , one wonders how many skateboarders will attempt the movie's stunt of lying on your back on a skateboard while negotiating a busy and twisting mountain road . they make it look like so much fun that i'm sure many will try some variation of the stunt . " how could this possibly be worst , " asks phil . just when you suspect it can't , the movie takes a turn further downhill . its low point may have you looking for an airline barf bag . it is rated pg for a little bathroom humor and would be acceptable for kids around 6 and up . nickolas also mentioned the scene in which the circus bear drives a jeep , and jeffrey especially liked the one in which the circus elephant was referred to as dumbo . 
some comedies are not funny no matter how hard they try , but baby geniuses , easily one of the worst films in years , doesn't even try that often . directed by bob clark ( porky's and porky's 2 ) , the film is a flat as the flat line on a heart monitor when the patient has died , something this comatose picture does in the very beginning . this would-be kathleen turner overacts with such abandon that her performance could only work in a parody , which this movie isn't . although the movie is shot in ugly , dark and sinister tones that would befit a horror movie about demonic babies , the movie does not intentionally try to scare us . the actors , who drone with all the emotive power of someone reading the phonebook , do get to participate in a few comic sketches , with repetitive injuries of the gonads being the most common . the moronic script by the writing committee of steven paul , francisca matos , robert grasmere , bob clark and greg michael is an insult to human intelligence . the on-going joke in the movie is that the viewers get to understand baby talk . these toddlers are among the most unfunny in the history of cinema . " you idiots ! you imbeciles ! you morons ! " you may feel like yelling those exact words at the screen . it is rated pg for some profanity , sexual innuendo and comic fist fighting violence and would be acceptable for most ages . my son jeffrey , almost 10 , liked the characters and gave the movie * * * . his friend jessica , almost 10 , thought the movie was really cute and gave it * * * . 
you'll check your watch frequently waiting for something to happen in leslie woodhead's abysmal documentary , endurance , and you'll still be checking it when the closing credits roll . if there were a cinematic dullness scale , this movie would reside just one notch ahead of the rating for a blank screen . gebrselassie deserves much better than this lame attempt at a movie . the best one can say of the film is that it undoubtedly has good intentions . but , regardless of the filmmaker's plans , the result is a docu-drama that robs the viewers of their time as they stare at a movie without a single compelling moment . even when , toward the end , we finally get to see him race , the movie saps all of the life and vitality out of the scenes . his big victory at the 1996 olympics in atlanta is drained of energy by the editing of the film and the sound . most of the movie consists of a badly reenacted story of his life . the filmmakers , incorrectly , assume that the film's images as so interesting that they can get away with having no narration and almost no dialog . this is a huge mistake . an even larger error is made in the amount of time allocated to completely uninteresting activities . the camera dwells on each activity as if we had never seen it before . we get the point that gebrselassie grew up in poverty , but do we have to devote the first 80% of the movie to it ? the filmmakers haven't a clue as to how to tell a coherent story . the confusing one they lay before us never draws us in or makes us care . as we watch , the people in it are stripped of their humanity by the film's lackluster and patronizing presentation . although it sounds good , one suspects that they could have played absolutely anything , and it would have been welcome . if the american film institute ever compiles a list of the worst documentaries ever made , endurance would have to be considered a top contender . the film is mainly in ethiopian with english subtitles . it is rated g as there is nothing to offend anyone . my son jeffrey , age 10 , complained that the film was confusing and contained no plot or point . he gave it 0 stars and said that he found nothing interesting in the entire movie . 
freddy got fingered , written and directed by its star , tom green , has the worst trailers that i've ever seen , and it has been called the worst movie ever made by some critics . " how bad could it be ? " i asked myself . whereas i'm not quite ready to call it the worst movie ever , it is certain to be at the absolute top of my worst of the year list for this year . a movie whose cruelty knows no bounds , it makes the mistake of confusing shock with humor . when you break a guy's leg so horrendously that the bone sticks out , it isn't funny . and having green lick the blood off the bone only makes it more repulsive rather than making it somehow perversely funny . i'm one of the few critics who thinks that tom green's last major outing , road trip , was one of last year's best and most underappreciated comedies . perhaps green has suffered some kind of blow to the head since then that has changed his ability to ascertain what is humorous and what isn't . acting like he is andy kaufman's evil twin , green insults his audience from the very beginning of freddie got fingered . well , he does get a job at the hollywood cheese sandwich factory , but it doesn't last . the scene manages to be even more disgusting that this description . there are a few briefly bearable -- bearable , not funny -- moments in the film , but it is impossible to catch your breath them since you are perpetually on your guard for the story's next atrocity . as bad as the trailers are , they are masterpieces of comedy next to the abomination of the movie itself . whatever you do , don't flirt with the idea that any movie this bad might be fun to see . this is a film that you don't want to inflict on yourself , no matter how adventuresome a moviegoer you think you are . trust me . a root canal without anesthetics would be less painful that freddie got fingered . freddy got fingered runs 1 : 33 but feels like three eternities . it is rated r for crude sexual and bizarre humor , and for strong language . consider it as nc-17 . this is not a movie for adults and certainly not for kids . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
it is a mess of a movie . if you are so adventurous as to pay your money to see it , perhaps you can figure it out ; i could not . mainly bruce willis stares at the other people and seems to be thinking what ever possessed me to agree to be in this movie . why didn't i ask to read the script first ? the putative director was richard rush . the dialog was so ridiculous that it made you wonder if this was supposed to be a parody of a bad movie . color of night is rated r , but i think it is not suitable for anyone of any age . it lasts for 2 hours and 3 minutes , if anyone could stay through it all . i certainly could not , but i feel confident that i missed nothing by not staying till the bitter end . i give it absolutely no stars at all ! * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
magic in the water is a boring oreo cookie commercial billed as a feature-length movie for kids . nearly split my side i was laughing so hard at that long series of jokes . the whole script by icel massey and rick stevenson is firmly based in boredom with a little stupidity and cliches thrown in every now and then for variety . among one of the many typical lines is joshua's who describes his camping goals as " i'm doing the man thing here . study death in the face . stuff like that . " don't you wish you had children so eloquent ? the premise of the movie is a recycling of the loch ness monster tale . the therapy sessions are a direct rip off from that equally awful movie , color of night , staring bruce willis . if you are going to copy , copy the worse i guess . orky , whose diet is almost exclusively the insides of oreo cookies , is arguably the most pathetic recent example of special effects . the effect is anything but special . in the water he is a small toy that you could buy for fifty cents . out of the water only his head moves , and his head looks like a piece of blubber which moves like molasses . too bad this movie was not made as a parody . harley jane kozak has had small parts in many other movies . and last , but not least , what did first time director , rick stevenson , think he was doing ? there is a medicine man that wanders through some of the scenes at random . sometimes there is talk of a toxic waste dump . the writers seem to throw in a little bit of everything in the hopes that something will work . although magic in the water is ridiculous , it still manages to scare the kids needlessly in some of the scenes . finally , the ending is an unstructured mess . surprise . surprise . it is rated pg for a few frightening scenes and a little profanity . i recommend one mile as a safe distance , i . e . , i recommend that neither you nor any of your family get within one mile of this movie . if dying of boredom was possible , this movie would be lethal . i do not give it any stars . avoid it at all costs . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
hackers is certainly the worst movie i have seen in years and will rank in infamy for me as one of the worst i have ever seen . hackers makes you leave the theater angry at everyone associated with the show for stealing your money and your time with a movie that insults the audience's intelligence with complete garbage . i would suggest writing these names down and avoiding anything they are ever associated with . hackers is a an mtv style movie that burst your ear drums with loud rock music and attempts to dazzle your eyes with flashing images and machine gun style cuts by cinematographer andrzej sekula . sure . what wonderful teenagers these kids are . the costumes by roger burton are particularly ridiculous . try looking at a computer screen someday with black glasses on and see what you can see . i have liked some of the hacker movies . i thought the net was fairly good and war games was great . in the first series of scenes as we see crash override hacking away , he types continually , but all that is on the screens is four columns of blurry images , not text , moving in opposite directions of each other . frequently his screen flashes images of old movies one after another while he is programming . right . do you have the problem that old movies flash on your screen a lot while you are programming ? so do i , and tiny green men frequently run of my floppy drive and dance on my keyboard as well . let me not describe him other than to give you his first line . one of the other hackers declares in another scene that " i need to get a handle . if i don't , i don't have an identity . " it is rated pg-13 , but trust me you do not want your kids to pollute their minds by seeing this drivel . i hated this show so much it took me several hours to calm down after seeing it . i have always had a consistent rating system that goes from zero to four stars , and i rarely give out the rating on either end of the scale . for this movie , i seriously considered giving it a minus one , but for consistency i will most generously award it zero stars . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
i would like to share with others that the fisher king is on my top of my worst movies of the year list . yes , i know the critics are going gaga over it . i found the jeff bridges character to be a total loser . his character taught me nothing other than it is pretty awful spending a lot of time with an alcoholic dead beat even if he is only on a movie screen . i found robin williams's character somewhat better , but spending hours a bum with a mental problem was not exactly terrific either . yes , i know i could use the politically correct term , " homeless " , and then i would have to view him reverentially . after an hour i walked out . i only wish i had been smart enough to do it sooner . i found that the images , especially that of jeff bridges , stayed with me for a while , and i did not like it . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : december 6 , 1991 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
some concepts seem patently hopeless from the beginning , a live-action version of mr . magoo being a prime example . the cartoon figure mr . magoo , the bumbling blind man , can be quite funny , but only in small doses and only within the confines of animated images . if you think naked gun star leslie nielsen is a dubious choice to play the role of the short guy who runs into walls , you are right , but there is an even more astonishing selection . mayhem then ensues as the bad and the good guys chase each other with mr . magoo frequently oblivious to the fact that anyone is being chased . like home alone 3 but without any class , mr . magoo can only be described as painfully bad . fifteen minutes of it feels like an eternity . the movie's humor is pathetically lame , and the pacing is way off . when one is stuck in a theater for an hour and a half watching what claims to be a motion picture , one looks for some solace . mr . magoo provides only three such moments . the movie begins and ends with the classic cartoon version of the character , who exudes his usual charm . the only other saving grave in the movie itself is angus , the sweet little bulldog . angus demonstrates more genuine emotions and a wider acting range than any of the humans in the picture . finally , the ending credits contain outtakes of the movie , which have some of the genuineness and spontaneity that the movie badly lacked . rather than attempt to adapt mr . magoo to a non-cartoon movie , nielsen makes the strategic mistake of trying to literally be a human version of the cartoon . he has trouble sustaining the squinting eyes and the affected voice , and even when he does it comes off as awkwardly unfunny . my wife managed to get some sleep during the movie , but i was not so lucky . hopefully , this picture will force producers to think harder about which subjects have promise and which do not . it is rated pg for comic violence and would be acceptable for all ages . my son jeffrey , age 8 , said he thought the movie was good and really funny , but recommends you not choose it if you want an action movie . he said he liked home alone 3 much more . his friend maxim , age 9 , said that he thought it was good but very silly and parts did not make sense . his other friend nickolas , age 8 , said he'd give the movie * * * 1/2 , but that it was really silly . 
my first press screening of 1998 and already i've gotten a prime candidate for my worst ten of the year list . what an auspicious beginning ! firestorm , the directorial debut of dances with wolves's academy award winning cinematographer dean semler , is the first of the new year's crop of movies . as our story opens , the movie pretentiously informs us that of the tens of thousands of firefighters only 400 are " smokejumpers . " we then cut to a plane load of smoke jumping cowboys and one cowgirl , where one of the gung-ho guys is taking a romance quiz from " cosmopolitan . " when , even in the beginning , the director can't get the small parts right , you can sense the movie is in trouble . not bothering to shout nor even get close to them , she announces her warning without raising her voice much or approaching the people . as it does throughout , overly dramatic cinematographer stephen f . windon from the postman uses extremely fast zooms right down to the endangered girl's face . most of the highly predictable movie is a long chase in which poor howie long is given one ridiculous stunt after another to look silly performing . when the film isn't using some stock footage of actual forest fires , the simulated ones look hokey . the ending , with its sick twists , manages to be even worse than the rest of the movie . perhaps the best that can be said for the picture is the faint praise i heard afterwards in the lobby , " it's not as bad as some of the television sitcoms . " firestorm runs mercifully just 1 : 29 . it is rated r for violence and language and would be acceptable for teenagers . 
benny , on the other hand , is a character you've seen a thousand times before , and mohr brings nothing new to that role . roberts's deliberately slow pacing of laurie craig's script lends a subtle sweetness to its humor but creates some definite problems . when a kids' movie wants to mosey along , watch out . if the material is not crisp and perfectly composed , beauty can sometimes dissolve into tedium . so it is with paulie . too often , however , a sleepy silence ensues among the viewers as they wait for the story to pickup again . although misha gets a few nice lines ( " i'm russian . i like long stories . " ) , his somber part seems designed only to elicit our sympathy . besides paulie , the only character worth noting - other than 2 cute small parts played by cheech marin and gina rowlands - is the speech-impaired marie , played in a precious performance by cinematic newcomer , 5-year-old hallie kate eisenberg . naturally enchanting , she gives the picture genuine heart . the best scenes have the bird dancing and strutting to show off his comedic skills . their rapid physical antics add to the humor of the situation . it's good quality sitcom material but performed by animals . " i'm a bird , " he explains with his frequently subtle humor . " i have a small brain , and it's about to explode . " the movie contains rich doses of john debney's dreamy music . with heavy use of a solo violin , he keeps reinforcing the film's heart-warming themes . " it's a long story , " says paulie . " it's the only kind he knows , " reflects misha . and the motion picture , which runs the standard length for a kids' movie , still feels too long . the best parts are enthralling , but then there are all of those dead spots in-between . paulie is a movie that never quite lives up to its promise but manages to charm nevertheless . it is raged pg for a few mild profanities and would be fine for all ages . my son , jeffrey , age 9 , gave the movie * * with his biggest complaint being that there wasn't enough action . he thought paulie was funny , and the actress that played marie was quite good . his friend sam , almost 9 , thought the movie was " awesome , excellent , " and gave it * * * * . he thought paulie was good , but he didn't believe the way marie's speech impediment was acted . 
is the world ready for a parody of a film like the postman , which some already regard as a parody ? six-string samurai seems to think so , but if we have to have another parody of a post-apocalyptic america , does it have to be this unwatchably bad ? the hero of the tale is one such elvis would-be replacement . the picture emphasizes his fighting skills by playing a third of his scenes in slow motion . the handsome , saturated colors in the cinematography and the film's dramatic visual style are the only things to recommend it . most of the supporting cast seem to think they are mental patient escapees from one flew over the cuckoo's nest . the " best " part of the movie is the paucity of dialog . the script by the lead , jeffrey falcon , and the director , lance mungia , has one-liners like " cool " and " gee . " when the actors attempt a complete english sentence , " slice me off a thigh , honey bunch " is typical . mcguire is the only actor who demonstrates any talent potential . whether he has any or not is hard to ascertain , since it is hidden in this mess of a movie , but he has a couple of good facial expressions . the film is as dry and barren as the arid terrain . the formless story drifts aimlessly like a tumbleweed blowing nowhere in particular . if i hadn't been at a press screening to review the film , i would have walked out , which is what i'd recommend you do if you find yourself accidentally watching it . perhaps , someday it will be thought of as so outrageously atrocious that it will be considered a cult classic . it is rated pg-13 for martial arts and sword fight violence and would be fine for kids around 10 and up . 
in writer and director darren stein's jawbreaker , it isn't as funny as it sounds . in fact , it isn't funny at all . stein has taken the black comedy of a teen movie like heathers and stripped it of any intelligence , wit or charm . his actresses toss off their lines so fast that they don't have time to add any emotion . and all of his female characters have considerably more lipstick than brains . the princess di reference is in bad taste , as is much of the movie . granted , bad taste can sometimes be funny , but the mere presence of bad taste doesn't guarantee it . these realistic and disgusting scenes of a dead , seminude teen have a pornographic feeling that is hard to forget and will likely turn the stomach of many a viewer . the film's dialog not only isn't funny , it's trite . the parents in the movie brag about learning parenting skills from watching oprah . the teachers fare no better , especially in the ridiculous lines they are given . " miss shayne , please cover your bosom , " one young teacher , who has been made up to look old and ugly , says without any conviction . besides the obvious question of why this movie was ever made , there is one other question that i'd like to ask the director . why do you have a phone number start with 555 if you going to cover the rest of the number anyway ? i am sure that if the hard nosed detective cruz were to see this movie , she'd walk out after about 5 minutes , and you'd be well advised to do the same if you should happen to find yourself in a theater showing it . it is rated r for violence , gore , profanity and sex . i would advise everyone to avoid it , but if teenagers go they should be older and mature . 
chris roberts's wing commander is a cinematic black hole that's liable to suck your brains out as you attempt to decipher its impenetrable story . first-time director roberts , who " directs " the movie based on his video game , clearly seems to be working in the wrong medium and doesn't have much of a clue as to how to stage a motion picture . writer kevin droney , who also adapted mortal combat for the big screen , creates a movie so confusing you need a manual to be able to follow it . you can score the movie as you watch it . give yourself 100 points every time you figure anything out . and give yourself double if you care . don't feel bad if you find you can't make a single point as that will be a common score . their motto is " if you die , you never existed . " the " special " effects in the movie are only a small cut above the old buck rogers's serials . the fighters look like three-inch pieces of old metal with bunsen burners for propellants . you do have to give the actors credit for keeping a straight face through it all , no matter how inane the dialog . my son , who is a fairly savvy and generally quiet moviegoer , whispered to me about a dozen times during the movie to see if i could figure out what was happening . each time i answered him honestly , " i have no idea . " as i was forced to endure this stupefyingly dull film , i began to develop various theories about it . perhaps , the speech was encrypted , and our theater didn't have the right decoder module . i tried watching the actors' mouths move since another theory of mine was that the movie was originally in a foreign language , and the problem was a bad english dubbing . well , the movie doesn't have to worry about emotion . there isn't a single character in it that creates one scintilla of interest or sympathy . don't see the movie ; rent the video game instead . no video game imaginable could be this terminally boring . it is rated pg-13 for sci-fi violence , profanity , sexuality and sexual innuendo and would be acceptable for kids around 10 and up . my son jeffrey , almost 10 , said he couldn't understand most of the movie since it was confusing and didn't make any sense . his friend nickolas , almost 10 , said he liked the film because of the action and gave the movie * * * * . 
here's a helpful hint for would-be filmmakers that i offer free of charge . if you're dead set on ripping off the funniest movies of the previous year ( there's something about mary ) , make sure that your film's opening sequence has at least some humorous aspect . to be fair , there is much more wrong with the picture than pollack's clumsy directing and the lame script by james b . cook , marc meeks and david spade . the picture allows you to admire her beauty but nothing more . mostly you feel sorry for her for getting stuck in such a bad movie . typical of the story's recycled humor is the oven that belches fires when opened . and then there are the flatulence jokes . it plays just as badly as it sounds . this movie is more likely to elicit groans than laughs . the movie features a stream of dog abuse jokes . supposedly , someone will find such humor funny . the movie isn't a complete waste as we get tidbits of dylan's philosophy . we also get a putdown line that i'm sure you guys will want to include in your mental bag of tricks . that's sure put your ex-girlfriend in her place . lost & found continues the recent trend of bad movies whose only decent segments occur during the closing credits . as the credits roll , the actors ham it up as they dance to an energetic rock beat . this two-minute music video is the only portion of the movie worth seeing . it is rated pg-13 for crude humor , sexuality , brief nudity and profanity and would be fine for teenagers . 
deep blue sea is a movie about intelligence and the lack thereof . ( i'm not making this up . ) on the unintelligent side is just about everyone else . a question should also be raised about the sanity of the film's backers . when he first pitched the movie , he should have been turned down flat . a disaster movie set in the ocean , in which we watch sharks slowly eat most of the cast , isn't exactly original or interesting . and the script by duncan kennedy , wayne powers and donna powers is completely ridiculous . the movie wastes the first half-hour slowly introducing us to the players . ( if you get the urge to walk out during this dead period , do not resist . ) saffron burrows plays dr . susan mcalester , who is perfectly willing to sacrifice everyone in the name of science -- her father had alzheimer's , you see . there are many others . the filmmakers need plenty of shark food . finally , the only cast member to insert any humanity into the picture is ll cool j as the religious , cross-carrying cook . played seriously , the movie is no parody , although it becomes so ludicrous that you will laugh , and loudly , on occasion . but this laughter is that of pain as you realize what an awful movie the studios are subjecting you to . castor oil would taste good in comparison . the film is definitely worst of the year material . on the other hand , if they start giving awards for actors who manage to keep a straight face during a ridiculous farce , every member of this cast would be contenders , save ll cool j , who seems to understand how noisome it is . " it's pretty scary stuff , huh ? " the problem in the movie is that no matter how many people are bitten in two , it's never the least bit scary because it's never credible . fear comes only when you can believe what you see . nothing in deep blue sea is the least bit believable . the list of nonsensical events in the movie is endless . is there any scene worth saving in the movie ? yes , the film contains , hands-down , the best anti-smoking commercial imaginable . deep blue sea runs way too long at 1 : 45 . the movie would be acceptable for teenagers . 
after reading the script by the writing committee of s . s . wilson , brent maddock , jeffrey price and peter s . seaman , why did you go ahead ? surely someone as bankable as you could have gotten a dozen better projects . with possibly the worst movie beard ever , kenneth branagh shamelessly overacts as the story's villain , dr . arliss loveless , who is trying to capture grant and take over the country . what is the greatest shakespearean actor in the world today doing in such an abomination ? is the money really worth it ? the story has an obsession for boob jokes -- punching boobs , flamethrower boobs and fake boobs . the humorless and mean-spirited script displays a series of elaborate mechanical contraptions as a way to run out the movie's clock . smith is reduced to bad stepin fetchit-style humor . in the story's low point , loveless , a legless paraplegic , engages in crude racist insults to west , while west returns a series of bad handicap barbs to loveless . the gadget-laden movie features an ugly , steam-powered tarantula that is 80-feet tall . it is clear that lots of money was wasted in the film's lavish production . rather than make one extremely expensive , horrible movie , the studio could have made many more modestly budgeted and hopefully better movies . the problem with movies like wild wild west , even if it has grossed over $100 , 000 , 000 domestically ( not including those lucrative foreign box office receipts and video sales ) , is its effect on the fans of its stars . when they agree to be in such a miserable movie and then show no life while acting their parts , it is as if they are thumbing their noses at the fans who flock to their movies . it is rated pg-13 for action violence , sex references and innuendo and would be acceptable for kids around 10 and up . my son jeffrey , age 10 , gave the film just * * . he liked the inventions plus all of the " shooting , punching and kicking . " 
having exhausted the possibilities of extreme violence as a way to shock audiences , filmmakers are always looking for other methods to give the viewers cheap thrills . stigmata uses the church , specifically the catholic church , as a rich source of cheap exploitation . although other films , most notably the exorcist , have explored similar themes , most of them are literary classics compared to stigmata . as written by tom lazarus and rick ramage and directed by rupert wainwright , the movie tries every tired trick in the book . loud sounds explode suddenly and often , like fireworks on the fourth of july . filmed with harsh , rock-video sensibilities , the film features buckets of blood , lit as if by the neon from a sleazy motel sign . no idea is too crass to be included . this , in case you didn't know , is the one with all of the sophisticated instruments to look into cases of religious miracles . father andrew just finished verifying that a stone statue actually shed warm , human tears . he's told to forget it . normally , gabriel byrne is able to bring a sweet , honest intensity to his parts , but all his attempts this time to infuse his character with at least a hint of humanity are utter failures . to be fair , the hackneyed material he has to work with makes the project impossible . the picture cuts to frankie in the bathtub . arquette displays all of the talent of someone taking acting 101 at a community college . between long , vacant looks , she bursts into brief spasms of unbelievable , emotional tantrums . " you know what is scarier than not believing in god ? " never coming close to achieving the level of laughably bad , the dry and ludicrous stigmata never rises above painfully bad . search as one might , there isn't a single interesting or original moment in it . it is rated r for intense violent sequences , language and some sexuality and would be acceptable for older teenagers . 
when a film sinks to the level of making jokes about pedophilic rape , you know it's in big trouble . hard , directed by john huckert and written by the director and john matkowsky , is a disgusting movie whose only possible saving grace is that it's sometimes laughably bad , if you get over the disgusting , gratuitous violence . there was some laughter at our screening , but the most frequent expression heard afterwards is that you felt like you needed to take a bath , it was so repulsive . this movie could be exhibit a in what's wrong with many indie films . the acting and writing have all the sophistication expected from a first year student at a junior college . to compensate , one suspects , for the lameness of the production , the director layers on a pornographic level of violence and sadism . if the movie can't be interesting , it will at least try to shock us into appreciating it . jack , a gay serial killer of other gays , is played by malcolm moorman in the only almost passable performance in the picture . his eventual coming out makes for the least believable part of a ridiculous story . most of the disgusting scenes are indescribable . one , for example , features a prostitute whose nickname is lockjaw and who suffers from epileptic fits . you can probably guess out where the writers are going with that setup . the movie works only if you assume it's a parody , but few scenes are intentionally funny . most are so sickening that you'll be looking for plenty of opportunities to visit the concession stand and the restroom -- anything to get away from the movie . then there's the dialog . " i've spent more time here washing out my jockey strap than you have being a detective , " tom tells raymond so as to put him in his place . " you thinkin' what i'm thinkin' ? " " what are you thinking ? " end of scene . " we're a cut above the rest . " the cops' actions are as shameless as the movie itself . hard runs a long 1 : 42 . it is not rated but would be nc-17 for strong , graphic violence , rape , torture , nudity and language . it is not acceptable for teenagers . 
what do you do for a living ? whatever it is , assume for a moment that instead you're a talented carpenter , who takes pride in his work . people are always complimenting you for the houses you build , and you've even won some prestigious awards . everything sounds promising until he shows you the blueprints . moreover , he demands that you use substandard materials and not take the time to build it properly . so what do you do ? do you take the money , close your eyes and hold your nose ? william malone's house on haunted hill , wisely not screened in advance to critics , is a remake of william castle's 1958 bad b-movie of the same name , which starred vincent price . ( this new movie should not be confused with a terrible movie released earlier this year called the haunting . this one manages , amazingly , to be even worse . ) so what new ideas does the remake have to improve upon the original ? second , there are lots of uses of the f-word to punch up the script . finally , the characters employ crude sexual insults and humor to keep the audience awake . in order to create fright , the movie employs the canonical techniques of loud sounds ( you're going to need ear plugs ) and lots of blood . dick beebe's script contains nothing but retreads . " take my word for it , everything's fine , " steven price ( rush ) says in limp reassurance in one scene . asks one of the movie's bimbos in another . geoffrey rush shamelessly overacts with a vengeance in this chillingly awful movie , which leaves us with one nagging question . can oscars be recalled ? it is rated r for violence , gore , language and nudity and would be fine for teenagers . 
stupidity reigns supreme in steve carr's next friday , starring ice cube and written by ice cube and d . j . filled with repugnant racial and sexist stereotypes , the film is an instant candidate for the worst film of the year . most of the characters in the movie appear to have iqs somewhere in the double digits , and the acting doesn't even rise to the level of what you might find in a low-rent comedy club . the plot is well hidden , not that you'll care . the movie relies on gross humor with the film's ongoing joke revolving around the stench from craig's father , mr . jones ( john witherspoon ) . in the opening sequence , a tiny dog has a world-class bowel movement . mr . jones falls backward into the fecal matter but doesn't even change his clothes afterwards . he explains that people in the 'hood can't swim so there was no point in filling it . the fatness of various characters' buttocks is a prime topic of conversation in the story . throughout it all , the baby-faced ice cube manages to be likable in a film that never is . and neither could i . it is rated r for strong language , drug use and sexual content . the film might be considered acceptable for older teens , but i'd hate to see anybody wasting their time watching this movie . 
fingers scraping across a blackboard . hanging up , one of the most irritating movies of the year , features non-stop phoning . like fingers grating across a blackboard , these cell and cordless phones ring incessantly . and , when the phones go on strike briefly during flashbacks , the story manages to be no less obnoxious . populated by clich ? d , unbearable characters , with whom you wouldn't want to spend 5 minutes , much less 90+ , the film is about as much fun as answering calls from telemarketers while you're trying , unsuccessfully , to have dinner . essentially a very long infomercial for the joys and trendiness of cell phoning , the movie gets in your face like a drunk at a cocktail party . the film's director , diane keaton , proves again than she's a much better actress than a director . call me every 5 minutes . " eve's son , jessie ( jesse james ) , has just discovered an especially insufferable laugh that almost rivals the movie's ubiquitous ringing sounds in detestability . to round out this strong but misused cast , cloris leachman plays pat , lou's ex-wife . the story by delia ephron does have a few nice moments -- perhaps the best being when eve , wearing one of her signature see-through blouses , wakes to the sound of a doorbell . it is rated pg-13 for language and some sex-related material and would be acceptable for kids 12 and up . 
the problem with bad films like 3 strikes -- a laughless comedy -- isn't just that they rob us of our entertainment dollars . featuring african-american men who are almost all criminals and women who are almost universally referred to and act like bitches and 'hos , the film paints such a stereotyped world that it's easy to lose our collective self-respect . a microcosm of what's wrong with such movies occurred in our theater . why , in a multiplex featuring 15 other movies , including some good family ones , the mother would expose her daughter to such an abhorrent picture is a mystery that's not worth solving . certainly , it was completely inappropriate for this young child to be in such an r-rated movie , but think about those teenagers who see it . and make no mistake about it , teens and young adults are the movie's intended demographics . people in this age bracket are less likely to ask the little girl's naive questions . inundated with such loathsome material , it is easy for the teens to accept this celluloid version as reality . this friend , it turns out , is packing more than pot . written and directed by d . j . even the successful african-americans in the film are not spared from ridicule . another embarrassing moment in a completely disgusting movie . it is rated r for pervasive language , strong sexual content , some drug use and a brief scene of violence . i'd hate to see kids of any age go to this movie . 
highlander : endgame , as confusingly written by joel soisson , directed by douglas aarniokoski and edited by the committee of chris blunden , rod dean , tracy granger and michael n . knue , isn't merely a bad movie , it is a stupefyingly awful one . even though its story is ripe for lampooning , the movie takes itself quite seriously . the fourth , and please last , in the highlander series , it probably has a group of avid fans who understand it all . i , however , not being a member of this cinematic cult found the plot to be an impenetrable mess . in a darkly-lit film , in which everyone wears the same dingy robes , it is hard to keep straight just who is who . i'll try to tell you what i learned from the factoids that the movie threw at me , but i suspect this will be one of those reviews where highlander groupies will discover errors aplenty . ( if you are a highlander aficionado , please do not write me as this is not the sort of film that i care to waste my time discussing . ) this much i know . you'll be glad to know that immortality is an equal opportunity employer , including both sexes and many races . when the movie , which switches timeframes frequently and delights in making them all look similar , is set in the present , the immortals' transportation of choice are noisy motorbikes . some immortals are good and some are bad . and sometimes they change sides -- i think . personally , i would have gotten a really big charge if i could have killed them all . amid all the blood and the battles , the immortals pause briefly on occasion to share some bit of wisdom with us . i have no idea what that means , but , since an immortal said it , you can be sure that it must be profound . it is rated r for violence and some strong sexuality and would be acceptable for older teenagers . 
beautiful isn't . a lifeless , mean-spirited film , it arrives doa at your local theater today . advertised as a comedy , the picture , thanks to sally's field's inept direction and jon bernstein's dull script , is , instead , a depressing drama . with beauty pageants as its subject , beautiful should have been an easy success . is there anything easier to satirize than beauty pageants ? last year's marvelously funny drop dead gorgeous showed what is possible . even if beautiful can't rise to that level , does it have to be so painful to watch ? every performance is gratingly awful , and all the roles are badly miscast . attractive minnie driver , as mona hibbard , the story's protagonist , doesn't have the body for a beauty pageant winner . she's a terrific actress , but even she can't pull this one off , especially given how badly and unsympathetically her part is written . to give you an idea of just how ugly beautiful can be , one of the key subplots concerns mona's disowning her own daughter , vanessa . it seems that you can't be miss american miss if you have children . incidents in beautiful will more likely have you going " yuck " than laughing . at least it works so that we don't witness child abuse . since the teenaged mona isn't even finishing in " the top 20 " of contests that don't seem to have more than a dozen entrants , she hires a beauty consultant . any movie willing to have kathleen turner in it is bound to be a stinker . yes , she was once a good actress . beautiful should have been released as a tv movie . if so , it would have been a decidedly below average tv movie . actually , were it not for sally field and minnie driver being associated with the production , it would never have been released in any venue . it is rated pg-13 for language and thematic elements . although it would be acceptable for kids 11 and up , i would not recommend this to anyone of any age . 
and the movie itself , which starts off as by far the worst kids' movie of the year , improves only marginally by the canonical big ending game . don't ask . he is either a clich ? of a mentally-deficient man for whom we are supposed to feel sorry or a hammy actor whose bad slapstick is supposed to make us laugh . we end up just feeling awkward whenever he is on the screen as he speaks in baby talk to jack . smith's performance is the only likable part of the entire movie . the nugget's practice consists of a half dozen simultaneous wrestling matches . the players are only interested in horsing around and couldn't care less if they continue to be slaughtered in every game . one kid is so bored that he knits on the ice . you'll wish that you had brought along your knitting materials to the movie . in short , the story by anne and robert vince is completely ridiculous and far from funny . the nugget's goalie is a semi-blind athlete who can't even see the puck . his name is -- you guessed it ! -- magoo . i suppose that if the mere sight of a chimp in human clothes does it for you , then you might like this movie . i've never been a fan of monkey comedies , but this is one of the worst that i've ever seen . you'll want to head for home about five minutes into mvp . i wish i could say that this movie should have gone direct to video rather than to a theatrical release , but i can't . the film stock for this movie should have gone direct into the incinerator . mvp : most valuable primate runs 1 : 33 . it is rated pg for some mild language and would be acceptable for all ages . my son jeffrey , age 11 , gave it just * 1/2 , complaining about how stupid many of the characters acted , especially the caregiver and the old man in the stands . steven's twin , john , liked the movie , giving it * * * and saying that he liked the way the movie was about hockey . 
jeremy irons ( academy award-winner for reversal of fortune ) , we didn't know you had it in you . when you go slumming , as you do in courtney solomon's dungeons & dragons , your acting is not just merely awful but a major league stinkeroo . assuming you're not destitute and it isn't your evil twin in the picture , the only possible explanation left is that your work in the movie is one big inside joke . with your snarls and exaggerations , you chew up the scenery with crude abandon . you must hope that any film this bad has to become a cult classic , and that , if it does , your part in it will eventually be seen as a huge spoof . someday you can tell the movie magazines that you intentionally tried to see just how terrible you could be . watching you is such an embarrassment that i hope your strategy proves correct . i refuse to assume that you acted this pathetically unless it was on purpose . to be fair , the performance by thora birch ( academy award nominee for american beauty ) is not much better . the minimal plot , set in medieval times , involves the control of dragons and the saving of the empire . with ugly and clunky special effects , the picture is no joy to watch . " please help me ! " where is the bubonic plague when you need it ? i wanted them all to die and the sooner , the better . dungeons & dragons runs a long 1 : 45 . it is rated pg-13 for fantasy action violence and would be acceptable for kids around 11 and up . my son jeffrey , age 11 , and some of his classmates who saw the film with him really liked it . they thought it started slow , but the maze and the fighting scenes were awesome and the special effects were cool . 
in osmosis jones , the farrelly brothers , co-directors bobby and peter , turn their outlandish and frequently disgusting brand of adult humor ( me , myself & irene ) to the world of kids' movies . the result is a film that is just as repulsive and awful as its vile trailers . mostly a cartoon set inside the human body , the movie cuts back periodically to a live-action outer world dominated by bill murray , who has never sunk so low . expect to be ready to run for the exits whenever humans show up on the screen . walking out could be one of your smartest moves of the year . in short , frank is the type of character that you hope to forget as quickly as possible but fear that you won't be able to . the animated part of the picture has a certain amount of imagination but just isn't funny . cartoon figures say things like they are going down to the kidneys to see the stones , you know , as in the rolling stones . if you go , one piece of advice : byobb . bring your own barf bag . it is rated pg for " bodily humor . " since the movie was originally rated pg-13 , one wonders how it escaped the pg-13 rating . besides its illustrated bathroom humor , the movie has some sequences that could disturb kids under 7 , including the realistic death of a parent and a frightening cartoon villain . my son jeffrey , age 12 , gave it just 1/2 of a star , saying that it was one of the very worst movies of the year . he found it disgusting and boring . in the silicon valley , it will be showing at the amc and the century theaters . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
pointless and painful , very painful . the first is such an easy going and tentative romance that it would be hard to stay awake were it not for the hint of intrigue . then there is the second half , which has the dubious distinction of being the movie that kept my eyes off of the screen for the longest amount of time ever . and since this was a subtitled film it meant that i was forced to miss much of the dialog . if this part has any redeeming merit , it may make you appreciate your feet more . you'll be happy that they're still attached and that no ghoul has slowly and painfully severed them from your legs . other directors might spare us some of audition's needless gore , but not takashi miike . watching this painful movie is like having to endure an especially sadistic fraternity hazing . one of these attributes will be seriously called into question in the second half of the story . with shades of fatal attraction , asami's one demand of aoyama is , " please love me . only me . you'll feel like begging for mercy and be praying for the ending credits to put you and poor aoyama out of your collective misery . the film is in japanese with english subtitles . it is not rated but would be nc-17 for pervasive , graphic violence . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
painful . painful . painful . watching and listening to chris kattan's comedic schtick in corky romano for a long hour and an half is like enduring the sounds of the proverbial fingernails across a blackboard . kattan , last seen as the organ donor in monkeybone , uses spastic slapstick to get his laughs . playing dumb for all he's worth , kattan does charm some members of the audience , but they can have him . after corky romano , he goes on my short list of the least tolerable comedians . this mispronunciation joke goes on and on , long past the time when you're ready to cry , " uncle ! " after five minutes , i was ready to run screaming for the exits . too bad the projectionist wasn't listening . it is rated pg-13 for " drug and sex-related humor , and for language " and would be acceptable for kids around 10 and up . my son jeffrey , age 12 , gave the film * * . he said that it had a dumb plot , dumb characters and a lot of strange parts , but he thought some scenes were funny . in the silicon valley , it will be showing at the amc and the century theaters . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
queen margot is about a period of french history ( 1572 ) of which i know little . i am a big history buff , i love costume dramas , and i have seen the excellent trailers for queen margot so i was looking forward to this show . that much is clear . everything else including who all of the minor characters are and why is a total fog for the first hour of the movie . eventually , you figure it all out and then you realize that the problem with the movie is not that it is incomprehensible . the problem in the movie is that it was poorly crafted from the beginning . how do i start in describing this disaster of a movie ? let's start with the cinematography . it was filmed with cameras with dirty lens or so it seemed , and they used a low contrast film that made the picture hard to see , dark and depressing . the set decoration , with the possible exception of the cathedral scene , was bland and totally without imagination . perhaps the worst parts of the movie are the costumes and the makeup . on the one hand , i love seeing beautiful women in movies , and this picture was filled with them . so why am i complaining ? sad to say they got an academy award nomination for this clothing too . the acting was of the lets all look pained and deliver our lines in a low whinny whisper school of acting . isabelle adjani looked marvelous in the picture , but too bad they forgot to tell her this was not a photo session and she had to act . all of the other actors and actresses in the movie managed to be even worse than the two leads which was hard to do . the director ( patrice chereau ) had no idea what kind of movie he wanted to make , and it showed . he provided lots of bloody scenes in an attempt to enliven this dreary and boring movie , but to no avail . the movie runs on and on and on at an exhausting 2 : 23 . i do not recommend it for any human being and certainly not for teenagers or younger . it is in french with english subtitles . i give it 1/2 of a star for reasons that totally escape me--perhaps adjani's smile is worth a half a star . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
it stars eric stolz as the playwright , mary-louise parker as the photographer , and ralph macchio as the actor . i loved jill clayburgh in an unmarried woman , but she was so pitifully bad in this movie it made me feel very sorry for her . the director of record for this show was daniel algrant . in theory there was a script written by daniel algrant and john warren . the dark and unimaginative cinematography was by joey forsyte . i detected nothing any of these people did worth any money . there is absolutely nothing to recommend you ever waste your time watching even a minute of this . i wish i had voted with my feet and left , but i did not for reasons i can no longer figure out . i rate it 1/2 of a * simply because it was only a colossal bore but not a painful show to watch . the good news is that you only have to endure naked in new york for 1 : 33 ; the bad news is that it seems like an eternity . the film is rated correctly rated r , but again , i would give it a big b for boredom . by the way , the choice of the title is pretty much an enigma , but then again , who cares . caveat : i confess to being a baby boomer . perhaps this show can be seen by young people today as an incredibly brilliant protest against the meaninglessness of this lives . then again , i have this bridge for sale . . . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . reviewed written on : may 23 , 1994 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
such is the dialog of the movie . the dialog by hal hartley , who was also the director , is of the david mamet staccato style , but without mamet's intelligent writing . as best i could figure out , the movie appears to be an attempt at a parody of a bad movie . as a parody , it is neither funny nor the least bit interesting . tortuous is the word that comes to mind . let me give you a flavor of the quality of the writing and directing . one character looking disheveled and disoriented , hops the counter at a cheap fast food pizza joint and steals a slice of pizza with the juice dripping down his chin . we are not supplied with the motivation for this bizarre behavior . not that i cared . the acting is not much . only isabelle huppert plays a character of any interest . she tries to make something of it , but fails . the other so called actors seem not to care enough to attempt much acting . with this script , who can blame them . amateur runs way too long at 1 : 45 . i wish i had voted with my feet and seen the picture next door . it is rated r because i guess they felt something this weird should not be pg-13 . there was a tiny bit of blood , some discussions of sex , and no nudity that i can remember . i would not wish this show on anyone , but i should warn you that it is so bad that many of you will love it claiming it is a cult classic and marvelous satire . good for you ; go twice . i award the show 1/2 of a star for a couple of funny lines . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . reviewed written on : may 25 , 1995 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
i actually liked him best in a small movie called school ties . even worse , the director ( antonia bird ) is unable to develop any genuine chemistry between the two leads . the director may have realized what a dog she had on her hands , because she released it with a mind numbing rock music background . whenever the show gets particularly boring , she cranks up the volume to anesthetize the audience from their pain of watching such drivel . perhaps the worst part of the show is the dangerous stunts the movie has the teenagers get involved in . mad love seems to be saying to them , try this , it is really cool and hey , you won't get hurt . the acting is all of the understated variety . the parents , especially the dads , are portrayed as evil in some unknown way that the movie only hints at but never describes . mad love runs too long at 1 : 39 . it is rated pg-13 for criminal behavior , a hint of nudity , underage drinking and smoking , and some profanity . it manages subtly to teach teenagers , who are the only possible audience for this movie , some bad morals and dubious lessons about life . avoid this picture . i award it 1/2 of a star because it did not quite reach the threshold of pain that i reserve for zero stars . on the whole it is much more soporific than painful . i wish had left . i wanted to demand my time back when i left the theater . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . reviewed written on : june 9 , 1995 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
as a southerner , i had trouble identifying with the reality of the story , but the stereotypes were as familiar as the latest television soap opera . the script by callie khouri is full of incredulity's . how many grown daughters would use the f word while talking to their fathers ? i don't buy him being that naive . khouri does come up with a few good one liners . the best one that is printable is wyly's when he says , " i may have fooled around a little bit , but i have never cheated . " the biggest problem with the script is that we get images and cliches , but no real story that engages the viewer , makes any of the characters more than stick figures , or makes you care about any of them . director lasse hallstroem who did the wonderful my life as a dog and the terrible what's eating gilbert grape encourages all of his cast to overact . her performance was totally unbelievable and off the wall . dennis quaid who has done a few good movies like d . o . a . and great balls of fire ! , but many more stinkers like undercover blues ( the bottom on my list in 1993 ) , comes through with another embarrassing performance . imagine a hurt puppy . you get the idea . duvall , who is usually good , was given a poorly written part and did nothing interesting with it . sedgwick looked like her sister , but other than similar looks i found her performance of no value . too cutesy for my taste . granted than given the characters , the scene at that point in the picture was not believable ; nevertheless , it was a small delight in an otherwise dismal movie . they should have made a different movie and used that scene in it . nevertheless , the cinematography ( sven nykvist ) and the sets ( mel bourne ) were pretty blah . only the close up scenes before the race had any imagination . the sound had major problems in the mixing and reminded me of some of the rough cuts you hear at a preview . something to talk about meanders along at 1 : 45 because of loose editing by mia goldman . it is rated r solely for bad language . there is no sex , nudity , violence , or drugs . i do not even remember any smoking . like all good southern cliches , however , the characters all drank enough to have cirrhosis of the liver . teenagers used to bad language would be not be harmed by seeing the show . on the other hand , i recommend everyone pass on this turkey and see any other movie instead . i award it a half star since it was not totally unbearable . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . reviewed written on : august 25 , 1995 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
for some reason , he must have managed to miss every screening of the dailies . if he had seen what a turkey he was creating , he would certainly have made major changes or abandoned the project altogether . it tells a story that never engages or involves the audience and lacks any semblance of energy . it is hard to enumerate all of problems in this disaster of a movie , but i will try to give a few . why didn't schlesinger realize how ridiculous all of the accents were ? hopkins plays a cliche of an ugly american . he is obnoxious and loud and speaks in an exaggerated style . when he speaks , he mumbles in a low and nondescript accent . he acts as if he is on heavy tranquilizers . rossellini does sound german , but like the most of the rest of the cast , almost all of her lines are whispered or mumbled as if she is afraid someone might hear what she is saying since she is ashamed to have signed on to do this awful movie . she giggles a lot and makes meaningless small talk in most scenes . hopkins is one of the greatest actors alive today and rossellini is quite good so that it is embarrassing to see them act so poorly . it is the worst acting performance in hopkins career . the acting and directing are not the only problems . if you are able to understand the mumbles , you realize the dialog is not worth hearing anyway . moreover , the plot takes many uninteresting and even more implausible twists and turns . the movie is never realistic and you never care for any of the characters . the script makes a major detour in the last part , and mcewan tries to mimic a hitchcock thriller . instead it turns into a poor quality slasher movie . there is a single funny line in the whole show . this really funny line is flubbed in the movie since he mumbles it . one final absurdity . it looks like that got a little hair frosting and nothing more . the innocent goes on and on at 1 : 58 thanks to slow and plodding editing by richard marden . i stupidly saw it all . like the movie , the credits move at a snail's pace as this were gandhi and the audience would not want to miss a single name . the movie is rated r for gory , bloody , and gratuitous violence , sex , very brief nudity , and some profanity . it was to have been a paramount release , but they sold it to miramax since it is a putative art house style film i guess . the innocent is being advertised as an erotic cold war thriller with the byline of " the only thing you can trust is your heart . " well , trust this review instead and don't get within a mile of it . by the way , there is not a single erotic frame in the movie . i award this dog only one half of one star . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
the movie gumby 1 is the little green clay figure gumby's first feature length movie . the ads incorrectly call the picture gumby : the movie , but the beginning and ending credits consistently label the film gumby 1 in large green type . whatever its name , it is the least offensive and most soporific kids' movie of 1995 . this is one of the few scenes other than the end of the movie that work . while the idea is sweet , the execution is not compelling . the character's words are total drivel . the movie relies upon sight gags to keep the audience's attention and most of these gags consist of various characters getting clay food thrown at them and having it run down their faces . it was mildly funny maybe the first two times and tedious thereafter . gumby asks them , " can i help you ? " , and thus our little kids learn another one sided lesson about capitalism . see jetsons : the movie , among others , for more such teachings . the quality of the production is terrible . the sounds effects remind me of something you might get on a cheap cassette promising all the sounds effects you'll ever need for only ten dollars . the animation is extremely choppy as if they were on a tight time schedule and a low budget , and they cut corners every where possible by not taking the time to do the proper adjustments between each frame . they could have paid some college acting students a few dollars and improved the movie dramatically . the actor playing him does a gratingly bad rendition of a w . c . fields imitation . clay animation , while not rivaling impressionist painting as an art form , nevertheless has a genuine charm . i regret to say that director art clokey was bereft of ideas when he decided to take something that works well in small doses on television and make it into a movie , and an overly long one at that . this is a shame since the last few minutes show what the movie could have been had the writers ( art and gloria clokey ) not felt constrained to follow a traditional story line . the high point of the show comes at the end . after the poorly written story is over , they switch to an almost unrelated rock video , and finally they cut loose and show what clay animation can do . the clay animation during the credits is equally good . so sad that the rest of the movie is so abysmal . where is the escape key when you need it i thought to myself . gumby 1 runs an exhausting and highly repetitive 1 : 23 thanks to no sense of proportion by editor lynn stevenson . nothing happens in gumby 1 , and it happens slowly . the movie is rated g , and if there were a rating tamer than g , this movie would get it . there is nothing to offend anyone of any age . i can not recommend this movie to anyone . let me be fair and tell you that jeffrey ( 6 1/2 ) likes the movie and gives it a thumbs up . on the other hand , he only appeared to enjoy it very much during the rock video at the end . finally , i give the movie a half of a star for a nice ending to a highly boring and amateurish production . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : december 5 , 1995 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
what's eating gilbert grape is a movie popular with the critics . first , the good part . there is a 20 second clip of an architecturally interesting courthouse . the rest of the show is either boring or unbearably depressing . the first 60 minutes of the show took at least 3 hours . if i had been by myself , i would have walked out after 30 minutes tops . i felt the movie actually get worse as it went along . let me see if it is possible to chronicle some of the things i hated about this movie . [wish i had ! ] he was clearly under heavy sedation at all times . what a great kid ! the way it was handled ranged from fairly depressing to very depressing . i did not care about any of the characters and got to hoping for a swarm of locus to sweep the plains and kill them all off so we could get a fresh set of actors . sad to report that no such swarm appeared . what's eating gilbert grape runs an exhausting 1 : 58 due to sloppy editing by andrew mondshein . it is rated pg-13 . for an excellent job of acting by dicaprio i generously award the show one half of a star , give it a big thumbs down . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : march 21 , 1994 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
two if by sea is a putative comedy reminsent of the smokey and the bandit series . it was released without previews to most critics which is usually a sign that the studio thinks their movie is in trouble . other than being poorly written ( by first time writer denis leary ) , sloppily directed ( bill bennett ) , and overacted by every member of the cast , it does have a few redeming features like picturesque views of nova scotia . when the script is not getting on your nerves and the slured , mumbled bostonian accent so thick that you need subtitles is not driving you crazy , you at least get to relive slapstick comedy scenes from other bad movies . just to make sure you know they are trying to mimic other movies , one character says to other " who do you think you are , burt reynolds ? " in one of many derivative scenes , she throws their map out the window . i found this slapstick attempt at humor to be a total failure since the acting was so overboard . two minutes into the movie and the movie is such a stinker that it begins to reek . within fifteen minutes , i was ready to leave . my wife wanted to stay to see if it picked up ; it didn't . i confess that i actually saw all of this piece of drivel . okay , so i did go to the lobby once for five minutes to escape . the movie does have a plot . frank steals a painting which turns out to be more valuable than expected . if you care , you can guess everything that will happen after this . it takes many people to craft a movie this bad , but prime credit has to go to denis leary ( from the ref ) who not only gave a pathic acting performance but came up with a script full of inanities . his script has frank o'brien saying , " people like us are born in little houses and die in little houses , and we've got to find happiness somewhere in between . " inserted into the middle of a bad comedy , this line is totally out of place and does not work at all and even if it did , leary is incapable of delivering it in a believable fashion . there is not a character in the show that is realistic and certainly none you care about . in theory there are two romances in two if by sea . in reality there is no chemistry between anyone . bullock , whom i loved in speed and liked in the net , is given poor direction and manages to be incomprehensible and uninteresting . kotto seems to be suffering from gas in most of the movie . he just stands around and frowns in most scenes while saying little . the worst performance of the lot is robson's . whenever beano and his band of incompitent small time crooks get on the screen , you want to shut your eyes . i am amazed to report that some people in my audience actually laughed at some of this stuff . it is incorrectly rated r . there is no nudity , sex , or violence . the language is mildly bad in a few scenes . i would have rated it pg-13 and with the deletion of a couple of words , it could have been pg . on the other hand , i strongly recommend that you and your kids stay as far away from this movie as possible . i do give it one half of a star , but only because it did not quite crack the threshold of pain , i reserve for zero star movies . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
two if by sea is a putative comedy reminsent of the smokey and the bandit series . it was released without previews to most critics which is usually a sign that the studio thinks their movie is in trouble . other than being poorly written ( by first time writer denis leary ) , sloppily directed ( bill bennett ) , and overacted by every member of the cast , it does have a few redeming features like picturesque views of nova scotia . when the script is not getting on your nerves and the slured , mumbled bostonian accent so thick that you need subtitles is not driving you crazy , you at least get to relive slapstick comedy scenes from other bad movies . just to make sure you know they are trying to mimic other movies , one character says to other " who do you think you are , burt reynolds ? " in one of many derivative scenes , she throws their map out the window . i found this slapstick attempt at humor to be a total failure since the acting was so overboard . two minutes into the movie and the movie is such a stinker that it begins to reek . within fifteen minutes , i was ready to leave . my wife wanted to stay to see if it picked up ; it didn't . i confess that i actually saw all of this piece of drivel . okay , so i did go to the lobby once for five minutes to escape . the movie does have a plot . frank steals a painting which turns out to be more valuable than expected . if you care , you can guess everything that will happen after this . it takes many people to craft a movie this bad , but prime credit has to go to denis leary ( from the ref ) who not only gave a pathic acting performance but came up with a script full of inanities . his script has frank o'brien saying , " people like us are born in little houses and die in little houses , and we've got to find happiness somewhere in between . " inserted into the middle of a bad comedy , this line is totally out of place and does not work at all and even if it did , leary is incapable of delivering it in a believable fashion . there is not a character in the show that is realistic and certainly none you care about . in theory there are two romances in two if by sea . in reality there is no chemistry between anyone . bullock , whom i loved in speed and liked in the net , is given poor direction and manages to be incomprehensible and uninteresting . kotto seems to be suffering from gas in most of the movie . he just stands around and frowns in most scenes while saying little . the worst performance of the lot is robson's . whenever beano and his band of incompitent small time crooks get on the screen , you want to shut your eyes . i am amazed to report that some people in my audience actually laughed at some of this stuff . it is incorrectly rated r . there is no nudity , sex , or violence . the language is mildly bad in a few scenes . i would have rated it pg-13 and with the deletion of a couple of words , it could have been pg . on the other hand , i strongly recommend that you and your kids stay as far away from this movie as possible . i do give it one half of a star , but only because it did not quite crack the threshold of pain , i reserve for zero star movies . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
now here is a concept for a movie , how about dead poets' society goes to sea ? so you are not enthralled ? well , too bad , that movie has been produced , and it is called white squall . this is a movie that should have never been made . it is a low quality rehash of the classic teaching high school kids movie that has been made more times than i can count . this picture has nothing original to say , and the acting is way below par . imagine making a show about kids and then not putting in a single kid ( or adult for that matter ) that you care about . there must have been a dozen or so boys . sailing was not like this in my day . guess it got a safer quickly since 1960 . the derivative script by todd robinson is filled with cliches . sure . another shoots a dauphin just because . there is not much of a story really just a series of almost unrelated and completely trivial incidents . i will not give away anymore other than to say they did not choose the title of the movie at random . there is no chemistry among the boys or among anyone else in the cast . there is not a single decent acting job by any of the boys . none of the characters are acted believably thanks to poor direction by ridley scott . i know it is a true story , but somehow i do not think the kids were really this boring or the captain this mean . bridges's performance is especially pathetic . he never warms up to the part and seems to be spaced out in most of the scenes as if he wishes he were somewhere else rather than in this film . sometimes they use extreme close-ups for reasons i could not figure out . there is a single good part of this movie . since my wife and i spent eleven wonderful ten day thanksgiving holidays in a row there , it brought back wonderful images to my brain . too bad we have not been there in years , but the movie served as a one minute travelogue for me . now , that is it ; there is nothing else worth seeing in this film . white squall runs way too long at 2 : 08 thanks to a lack of serious editing by gerry hambling . the first part is excruciatingly slow . the movie is rated pg-13 for violence and a little bad language . there is no sex or nudity . there is nothing here that would harm teenagers other than boredom . i do not recommend this show to anyone , and i give it 1/2 of a star . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
mixed nuts , which originally had the title of life savers until that title tested poorly , is the latest steve martin movie . oops , i forgot to tell you a key fact ; theoretically , this is a comedy . their brand of humor is created by shouting at each other , by providing loud music that tries to put you in a laughing mood , and by having numerous sight gags . boy , that one sure put me in stitches . in order to give you a proper grasp of the scale of the quality of the script ( written by the director nora ephron ) , let me provide you with the very best piece of writing in the whole movie . she then complains that she wanted to tell him , but " i did not want to do it over the phone like this . i wanted to fax you , but you don't even have a fax ! " as soon as your uncontrollable laughter has subsided after reading that last sentence , you can continue reading this review . there are other people in the show , and in fact , the movie is filled with quirky characters . i will not embarrass them by mentioning any of their names other than juliette lewis who was so bad that she deserves a special mention . the movie is set in santa barbara but the camerawork is so cutesy that it manages to make one of the loveliest towns in california just look silly and dreary . the director should be shot . surely when she watched the dailies she realized that all of the so called jokes were falling flat . then again , perhaps she did and that is why she had them start shouting at each other and why she added the zippy soundtrack to makes us forget the " plot " . the producer should have gotten a different writer and probably another director or better yet , he should have just given up on the whole project . i think steve martin is the best comedic actor that there is . nevertheless , he was pathetic in this movie . i am such a big fan of his that i lay most of the blame on the character he was given . if ephron had just let martin cut lose and ad lib some it would have made for a much better time at the movies . it is rated pg-13 which i agree with . i recommend you avoid this show at all cost , and i give it 1/2 of a star because , although the movie was a disaster from start to finish , at least it was more stupid than offensive . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
although mary reilly is being billed as a remake of the dr . jekyll and mr . hyde story , i believe it is actually a remake of my fair lady . i can easily imagine professor higgins bolding proclaiming that he could take a famous story full of action and imagination , populate it with megastars , turn it into a colossal bore and yet so stun the audience with his audacity that no one would leave . everyone would know the story and the stars so they would wait until the last moment to realize that he had transformed a prince of a movie into a guttersnipe and that nothing of interest was ever going to happen in the film . as the audience leaves dazed and bewildered , colonel pickering must have been singing , " you've done it , you've done it , i can't believe you've done it . " the movie starts off promisingly enough with realistic gas and candle lit photography ( philippe rousselot ) . this , however , rapidly degenerates into a movie so dark and with such low contrast that your eyes , when you can keep them awake , will literally hurt from squinting so much trying to make out the action , or usually lack thereof , on the screen . the movie is filmed in edinburgh , but it is so dark , you'd never know it . most of the time , during this and all parts of the movie , is devoted to atmospheric scenes of one cast member or another slowly walking through rooms where little happens . it is hard to believe that this movie shares the same lineage with the numerous other dr . jekyll and mr . hyde pictures . in a failed attempt to solve this problem he comes up with lots of gratuitous violence and major amounts of human and animal blood . actually , my distaste for the movie comes not from disliking these scenes , but from being put to sleep by the boredom of the show . for some reason dr . jekyll looks a lot like ethan hawke in before sunrise . sure . the acting by the three great stars is an embarrassment . glenn close has no idea of what to do with her role and plays it like a stone . julia roberts seems to think that so long as she is made up to appear unattractive , and she grimaces a lot , she has achieved great art . last , and certainly least , is john malkovich's disappointing performance . i would list him close to the top of the best actors working today . in good shows and bad , i have been nothing less than in awe of his work until now . somehow , professor higgins , i mean stephen frears manages to get an uninteresting performance out of malkovich . this is a miracle i did not think possible . many scenes of no interest in the less are left in the final cut . although there is no sex , nudity , or bad language , there is so much gore that the movie is correctly rated r . although it might bore them to death , i do not think the movie would be bad for teenagers . on the other hand , i had trouble staying awake , and i wish i would have walked out so i do not recommend this extremely s-l-o-w film to anyone . rent any of the previous versions instead . i give the movie 1/2 of a * only because i've seen worse . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
as soon as she finished that line , i knew this film was either headed to being a successful off-the-wall comedy or a dog , but i feared it would be the later . i should say upfront , that schrader's is not american actress mary-louise parker's twin sister , but she sure does look like her . fanny has a severe insecurity complex . she tells the audience , " i wouldn't fall in love with me if i were you . " fanny makes a point of letting the audience know that she is not particular about the man she is looking for either . don't you hear it ticking ? " on the other hand , the insides of the all of the apartments look solidly middle class as does fanny's clothing . why the set decorator ( claus kottmann ) and the costume designer ( siegbert kammerer ) did this , i have no idea , but i did not buy it . it is dark , gray , and ugly . although this fascination with suicide worked in harold and maude , here it comes off as a cheap way to enliven doris doerrie's ridiculous script . i think maria schrader demonstrates significant potential by being able to shine through this miserable material . as for the other actors and actresses in this movie , if i never see any of them again , i do not think i will have missed much . the story is mess from start to finish and is filled with characters i did not care about in the least . nobody loves me drags on at 1 : 44 . it does not have an mpaa rating , but it is a soft r show with a little sex and nudity . it would not harm any teenager , but i do not recommend that anyone waste their time with this show . it has an interesting concept and nothing more . i give it one half of a * solely for schrader's performance . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
i have a theory that some actors can not read . as proof of this i present demi moore in the juror . if she had been able to read , surely she would have read the script and seen that it had bomb written on every page . there was probably a surgeon general's warning on the cover about taking this job being hazardous to an actor's wealth . when she has good material to work with as she did in ghost and a few good men , her incredible talents radiate so it must be her inability to read that is causing her to make such poor decisions about which projects to undertake . the show is filled with major implausibilities and improbabilities . in an unbelievable show , the ending manages to be even worse . i did not think this possible . sure . this is a set up for her to be able to use lines like , " would you like to feel another one . " you must check your brains at the lobby or you will never be able to buy a minute of this preposterous script . i know what you're going through . " the cliched hyper-spooky music by james newton howard has to be the most ludicrous of the year . the cinematography by jamie anderson is of the ugly , dark and dreary school with various shades of dirty blues and grays . i was very sad to see one of my favorite actresses , lindsay crouse getting a terrible part as prosecutor tallow . on the other hand , there are almost no good parts in this film . it is completely out of character for oliver . even given the low quality of the script by ted tally based on a novel by george dawes green , the overacting by moore and baldwin transforms from merely awful into a colossal disaster . too bad director brian gibson didn't pay more attention to the dailies and just abandon the project before it was completed and save the backers some money . is there anything good in this turkey ? well , there are a few very minor actors in almost trivial roles that are good . it is rated r for bad language , sex , brief nudity , and violence . it would probably be okay for most teenagers , but i hope none of them waste their time seeing it . i hated the show , and i feel certain you will too . i am giving it 1/2 of a * only because i have seen worse . at least the show is more utterly ridiculous than painfully unbearable . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
it tries to be erotic , funny , supernatural , and shocking . this is a gross picture with few redeeming features . i can not think of them now , but i am sure there must have been some . i hope never to see this terrible actor again . dellamorte has a problem . the is done with brains exposed . best to eat before you see the show . he muses that , " at a certain point in your life you realize you know more dead people than living . " he says that , " i haven't read more than two books in my whole life . one i never finished , and the other is the phone book . " this is one of the few lines in the script by giovanni romoli , and based on the book by tiziano sclavi , that is actually funny . most of the humor is macabre sight gags . if you find extreme grossness humorous , you may like it . to me when gnaghi eats with food pouring out of his mouth onto his chin and clothes , i was not impressed . when he constantly drools , i do not find it cute . let me describe a typical scene so you get an idea as to what this uniquely bad film is like . supernatural small torches like large insects keep interrupting them . sickening enough for you ? what do you think the rest of the world looks like ? " i take just the opposite view and wonder why the rest of the world had to look at this town through this movie . there are people who love these italian blends of horror and comedy , but i now know that i am not one of them if this monstrosity is representative . it is rated r for sex , nudity , some bad language , and lots of gore and violence . i would not want my teenager to see it . i suggest everyone avoid this show like the plague . i give it 1/2 of a * only because did not quite reach the threshold of pain i reserve for zero star films , but it did come close . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : may 5 , 1996 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
moviegoers should be experimental , but not downright foolish . i knew i was taking a significant risk by trying another movie with alec baldwin in it , but when i saw eric roberts name on heaven's prisoners' opening credits as well , pain hit , and i realized what trouble i was in . baldwin's last flick , the juror , was a major bomb and most of his other recent films have been equally unsuccessful . don't get me wrong , both actors possess great talent , but it is coupled with a death wish when it comes to finding scripts and with an excessive ego that leads to heavy overacting . eric roberts hasn't given a good performance since 1983 in his brilliant star 80 . i tried , i promise i tried to like this show . liking a script ( scott frank and harley peyton based on a book by james lee burke ) that is so bad , as i will shortly demonstrate , that you want to laugh at it rather than with it is not easy . these actors are not the sort you turn loose on their own . let me see if i can give you a feel for this turkey . he starts the movie by confessing , " i want a drink . i want a drink all the time . " sure . that would sure scare me if i didn't break out in uncontrollable laughter first . later he really frightens poor larry with , " if i were you , i'd find another zip code . " whew . see what i mean about this sizzling dialog ? it isn't only dave that gets to say these stupid things . well , that would certainly make the police lineup go faster . oh yes , all of the leads can never make up their minds about their accents which fade in and out like the tide . break your ear plugs if you come . there are lots of explosions and general loud sounds as people get shot at and beat up in about every other scene . the film is needlessly gory , but the biggest sadist is editor william steinkamp who lets the show go on for what seems forever . i was ready to walk out , but the show at been going on for almost an hour and a half , so i decided to stay in deference to my wife who was not visibly as bored as i was . i was shocked to find the film go on for almost another hour past that . one final good note , the atmosphere of the louisiana bayous is great . heaven's prisoners supposedly runs 2 : 10 , but i think it may have been longer . it is rated r for some nudity , some bad language , and lots of violence . it would be okay for most teenagers . be wary of any movie that is not screened in advance to the local critics as this one was not . based on the large size of my audience , this seems an effective strategy . do not come anywhere near this disaster . i give the film 1/2 of a star , but only for the atmosphere . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
director manoel de oliveira's the convent ( o convento ) is the one of those artistic film that tries so hard to be artsy that it loses all touch with reality and with what makes an enjoyable film in the first place . the director does do something right . he then makes a really bad decision and hires himself to write the script which is on silly side of ridiculous and the lines are preposterous . as the story meanders along , the audience wonders where it is going and why , and what is the point of it all . i could waste your time with more details of the story , but trust me , you don't want to know them . the acting by even the brilliant leads is mediocre at best . the director's pacing is atrocious . scenes drag by at a glacial speed . the editing ( manoel de oliveira and valerie loiseleux ) has no sense of timing . the cinematography ( mario barroso ) looks like many of the scenes were filmed with the back of the camera open so that light pollution almost ruined the film . i am sure this did not happen so why so many scenes are so washed out as to be almost unwatchable is something i could never figure out . it is so overscored and loud at inappropriate moments that it seems to be a caricature of a bad musical score . is there anything good in this mess of a movie ? only one . the convent runs only 1 : 30 , but it will seem like a life sentence . it is mainly in english , but when other languages are used there are english subtitles . it is not rated , but who cares since people of all ages should avoid this bomb . i give it 1/2 of a star only for deneuve's everlasting radiance . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
every actor and actress has their specialties . for demi moore it is her willingness to take large sums of money to play in movies no matter how terrible the script . as proof of this thesis , simply consider her recent bombs at the box office and with the critics . the scarlet letter and the juror immediately come to mind , but there were probably others . in short , it is actually even worse that its title might lead you to believe . it is so bad that one begins to think it must be a parody of something , but what ? in the opening sequence , erin grant ( demi moore ) is in court being lectured by a cliche of an unreasonable judge . i am not going to use the word cliche again in this review since it applies to every single character in the show so whenever i talk about a character , just insert the word cliche . suspension of disbelieve of this magnitude is impossible . this show raises implausibility to new heights . yes , i know it is very loosely based on a true story , but as shown in this film , i do not buy a minute of it . i am not making any this up . also in the show is armand assante as al garcia . now , i know what some of you are thinking . if the movie is bad , at least it will be erotic what with a semiclad moore and all of those other naked bodies doing stripteases on the screen . well , forget it . this is one of the least erotic and most distasteful movies to come by in a long time . remember the energy and love that jennifer beals and all of the other dancers put into flashdance ? well , this show is not that much different but here the dancing/stripping is gritty , demeaning and repulsive . the film is horribly misdirected by andrew bergman . like a game of poker where the lowest hand wins , the actors try to outdo each other seeing who can deliver the most pathetic performance . it is a close call , but i think reynolds beat out moore . his acting reaches new levels of embarrassment . striptease runs 1 : 55 , but it will feel like a millennium . it is rated r for nudity , violence , bad language and sexual situations . i strongly suggest that this film is not suitable for a human being of any age . avoid this picture like the plague . i am in a generous mood so i will give the film 1/2 of a star for the sweet smile on rumer willis's face since she is a dead ringer for my son's good friend allison . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
robert altman is perhaps the most unreliable of the great directors . his short cuts was one of my favorite films in 1993 . his list of movies includes as many failures as successes , but his greatness stems from his best movies . i have not seen all of his films , but i nominate kansas city as a surefire candidate for the bottom of the list . the script by robert altman and frank barhydt is such a mess that describing the plot will not convey the abyss into it sinks the audience . this is a highly confusing and contrived story . none of it is clear at first , but once you figure it out , you will not care . i spent most of my time with mouth opened in shock at how appalling bad this film is . let me cover just a few examples . belafonte is pathetic . he talks non-stop , but since he mumbles all of his lines and talks in a whisper , little of what he says can actually be heard . that is the good news . sad . as truly awful as belafonte's performance is , leigh is much worse . she sounds like bugs bunny trying to sound like jean harlow . it is so bad that you find yourself laughing sometimes at leigh's acting , and this movie is not a parody . she too is given ridiculous and cliched dialog like , " move over toots . " she is so gratingly bad , that you want to cover your ears when her mouth starts to move in case she is about to make another one of those terrible noises camouflaged as speech . all of the acting is terrible . the only variable is how bad . the least miserable work is delivered by richardson as the druggie wife . richardson looks like she wishes she were anywhere else but in this picture , which at least shows some good taste . okay , so the movie is not a total waste . this is not enough to keep you confined to the theater for what seems like an eternity but is only two hours . escape if you find yourself caught in there . being a critic , i saw it all , but you shouldn't have to . it is a completely pointless show that is incomprehensible . finally , just when you think altman's film has hit bottom , it manages to come up with an ending even worse than the rest of the picture . kansas city runs 1 : 55 , but you will see in two minutes what a stinker it is and leave . it is rated r . there is nudity , drug usage including snorting cocaine , gory spilled guts style violence , and bad language including lots of use of the f and the n words . i would keep all human beings away from the show , but if kids want to see it , i think they should be at least mature teenagers . i hate this show and am sure most people will . i generously give it 1/2 of a star . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
i would give it one half of a star for guts . anyone in a movie this bad would have to have guts . i later read a ny times review that said kathleen turner and dennis quaid had gotten so plump they looked like they had the mumps in the show . the script was the worst part . they had characters who talked with funny accents in an attempt to make you laugh . they had lots of " great " sight gags like two people trying to go in a door together and therefore bumping shoulders against the door . turner and quaid both kept smiling like some idiots on a game show . the good news is that we were smart enough to vote with our feet and left . buy some tickets and give them to your worst enemies . tell them the show is great and smile a lot . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : september 29 , 1993 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
i saw this film at the press screening . the press kit proudly proclaims that it won one of the many awards at the 1996 sundance film festival . by my estimate , approximately ninety-eight percent of the sentences include the f word , and on several he was able to make it be every other word in the sentence . certainly a record albeit perhaps not an enviable one . take out the f words and the parsimonious script just about vanishes . if they are typical college material , then no wonder the sat scores keep dropping in our country . in one of the few good and poignant scenes in the show , emma talks about her experience with date rape . the credits describe the film as " a collaborative process . " the script is credited to the actresses and the director . it sounds like there was no written script , and they ad-libbed most of the lines . too bad it didn't have some directing . the actresses demonstrate little energy and almost no talent . this is not to say they do not have talent , but that there is little in evidence in this film . the film wanders around aimlessly like a ship without a rudder or a captain . my life . " kind of hard to win against that orwellian logic . one of her poems ends with , " what you see is what you get . it ain't cheap . it ain't free , but it's undeniably me . " as the ending credits roll , she says , " i'd just like to get out of here . " my sentiments exactly . one final comment on the use of the f word in films . i asked one of the other critics at the screening about the plethora of f words in it , and he said it did not bother him since that is how teenagers in new york city talk . true perhaps , but not enough justification for me . i love pulp fiction and gave it my highest rating . other films like glengarry glen ross i also praised highly . both of these pictures are full of the use of the f word , but in them the script was strong and the f words were appropriate in the context . here , there is nothing but cussing . take it away , and you have almost nothing left . it is rated r . there is incessant foul language including a surfeit of f words . there is some drug use , a lot of vandalism , but no sex or nudity . i think it gives a horrible message to our teenagers so i hope as few as possible of them will ever see it . i hated the film , and i give it 1/2 of a star only because i have seen worse . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
glory daze opens with that question , but the answer they give is less than satisfying . rich kids it seems are so enamored with their pointless partying and hanging out , that they don't want to leave . you , on the other hand , may want to make a fast exit if you accidentally find yourself watching this assemblage of cardboard characters . this movie gives a new meaning to the word boredom . i say how do you explain herpes or the grateful dead ? " the guys are stick figures , but the women's roles are worse - visual wallpaper . the writer of the jerky boys , rich wilkes , takes his first stab at directing with this film , and he also wrote the script . the film is so bad that it borders on self-parody . some of the dialog is kind of cute in the abstract but is leaden in this low energy and never believable film . think of it as animal house on valium . i love my mother , but not as much as you guys think i do . " although the kids in the film spend time in class on such artistic creations as a golden hand holding a cd , their professor seems to be even more unbelievable . nothing , i repeat nothing , happens in the movie . the picture tries sometimes to be mildly offense by using gratuitous bad language and constant drinking . actually , the show is so lame that it is not even effective at being offensive since these scenes are all so false . no more of this palsie walsie stuff . " at the end the movie attempts to come alive with a few shocks . like the rest of the picture it is predictable and an unmitigated disaster . glory daze runs about an hour and a half , but will feel like an eternity . it was not yet rated when i saw it , but i suspect it will get a pg-13 or an r . there is no violence or sex , but there is a little nudity and a fair amount of bad language . the film should would be acceptable for most teenagers although i am not fond of the message it gives , but i strongly recommend that this miserable piece of film making be avoided by all ages . only because it was more boring than painful , do i give it 1/2 of a star . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
after seeing an ad of an airplane in a thunderstorm , readers might accidentally believe that the name of the movie turbulence refers to some atmospheric condition . the title refers to the state of mind of writers jonathan brett , steven e . de souza , and john herzfeld when they composed the script . i would like to issue a challenge to viewers of this film by director robert butler . why don't you take along an abacus and try to count the number of actions that either make no sense or are just outright ludicrous ? so that not too many more of you waste your money on this monstrosity , i will tell you several of them , but rest assured that i have just scratched the surface . if you are worried about my giving away part of the plot , i will probably not tell you much more than the trailers , but i will use many examples to illustrate my points . the script is so bad that i was laughing very loudly at all the wrong places . here is a question for you . you are sitting in a plane seat . trick question . you stay of course . i have lots more questions for you . let's say you are a federal marshal and your prisoner goes to the bathroom . do you think it is necessary to keep a close eye on him ? here are two of my favorites questions . and if you are the last person left flying the plane and the plane is on the verge of free-fall , do you think you'd take off your seat belt to roam around the plane to check on the rest of flight crew ? as you may guess , this misguided trust will soon pass and the real hero of the tale will emerge , flight attendant teri . this shamelessly manipulative story titillates the audience with a never-to-be sex scene as a prelude to more violence . " yes , but what if this sophisticated plane , " asks teri , " flies into an unsophisticated storm ? " and surprise , the scene is lifted straight out of a schlock horror film . halfway through this abysmal picture , i began to think of the roman emperors . i wanted so bad to stand up , turn my thumbs down , and yell , " kill 'em all . " what five albums would you pick ? " it is rated r for gory violence , implied rape , and profanity . the show would probably be okay for older teenagers who like horror flicks . i hated this movie and recommend everyone avoid it . i give it 1/2 of a star for the special effects . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . review written on : january 10 , 1997 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
as any film festival goer knows , there are many movies made that are so bad that their chance of finding a distributor for a theatrical distribution are slim . the preposterous film ripe miraculously did find a distributor . this shamelessly exploitive picture does not deserve a theatrical release even if first-time writer and director mo ogrodnik tries to be sincere . the result reeks . the highly predictive script leaves no doubt that both of these behaviors will be repeated later and with much more devastating effect . the soldiers are too busy most of the time singing cliched songs like , " i don't want no teenage queen ; i just want my m-16 . " although many scenes come within millimeters of showing their private parts , none do . the girls have sex , but again , the director holds off just enough to keep from getting in trouble . in america you can show anything you want so long as the actors are adults , but if they are under 18 , all of the rules change . the director wanted to make a serious film . currie's exceedingly bland performance makes pete less a character than a visual wallpaper for the girls act in front of . in a film where the actors seem to be competing for the worst acting of the year award , currie takes away the prize . to make sure that you realize how troubled and rebellious these kids are , the script even has them take a ferris wheel just so they can spit on other riders . the manipulative story wants us to sympathize with the girls even when they commit crimes large and small , but their characters are never developed beyond cliches so it becomes almost impossible to care about them . the director seems incapable of getting even the small things right . the show's frequent lack of any background noise makes viewing incredibly tedious . ripe does have one redeeming feature . eventually , it does end although not before its preordained and tear-jerking conclusion . ripe runs 1 : 33 . it is not rated but might be nc-17 given its subject matter . the movie is not appropriate for teenagers . i detested the film and recommend you not have to sit through it . i give it just 1/2 of a star . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . review written on : may 24 , 1997 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
if a producer had ever been foolish enough to give ed wood ( director of arguably the worst movie ever made , plan 9 from outer space ) a hundred million dollars , the result could well have been this batman & robin . in summer hollywood studios usually figure that big budget action pictures will sell regardless of quality . but even with diminished expectations , batman & robin is surprisingly bad . it insults the viewer's intelligence with lifeless acting and a tired script . in our packed advanced screening , there was excitement in the air before the film started . but after the lights went down , the audience stared in almost silent disbelief at a film that was so doa . the third batman movie , batman forever , which felt like it went on forever , had the misfortune to have been directed by joel schumacher . the fourth in the batman series , batman & robin , again has schumacher as the director . this time he manages to badly miscast the roles of batman and robin and then coach arnold schwarzenegger into giving the worst performance of his career . from the film's opening line of " the iceman cometh , " by schwarzenegger as victor fries/mr . freeze , the dialog itself is frozen . the show features bad acting masquerading as camp . mr . freeze's lines are spoken staccato style , and all of the cast speaks without intonation . less like acting than the reading aloud one would expect from a second grader . there are the primary colors of the save-the-rain-forest benefit as well as scenes of blue gray ice . savor these elements of the picture for they are all that is worthwhile . had i not been there to review the film i would have walked out after five minutes , literally . it is that bad . if you think george clooney is an unlikely and unpromising choice for batman , you are right . whereas michael keaton was quirky and val kilmer was outlandish and brooding , clooney gives such an inconsequential performance as bruce wayne/batman that he blends into the background . chris o'donnell suffers the same problem . akiva goldsman's script gives the two women the same throwaway lines as the rest of the cast . ( " come with me , " teases poison ivy to robin . as i sat frozen as if by mr . freeze's big gun , i whiled away the time suffering through batman & robin wondering if there was any movie i enjoyed less this year . although i could not recall all 137 movies i have seen this year , i could not think of any that were worse . " if i must suffer , humanity will suffer with me , " warns mr . freeze . and so will batman & robin's audiences . batman & robin runs two long hours . it is rated pg-13 for cartoonish violence and sexual innuendoes . the film would be fine for kids around 8 or 9 and up , but i recommend seeing anything else . in comparison to batman & robin the summer's other action pictures look like masterpieces . if you do go , bring an interesting watch ; you are going to be looking at it frequently . i thought about giving the film no stars , but decided i would give it one half of a star for the sets . even so , i think i am being too generous . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
" i think words are not serving me well at all , " confesses robert downey jr . in an excessively narcissistic performance as the two-timing lover blake allen . and the dense words -- at the rate of about one million a minute -- of writer and director james toback fail the audience at every turn with the worst script i've had to sit through this year . ( when the film broke during the press screening , i was hopeful , but our resourceful projectionist fixed it quickly . the claustrophobic film , two girls and a guy , is set almost entirely in a soho loft . yes , that's two girlfriends . the movie has a single interesting idea . how fast can they spew their trite lines ? regretfully , not quite fast enough so that you can miss any of the lines . this is one of many lines i would just as soon have missed . none of the actors , however , are new , and downey is both famous and talented . nevertheless , the picture is gratingly awful . even the camera operator seems lost . many scenes find him panning the room looking in vain for something interesting to record . but like the supposedly dead monster in a horror film , it comes back . this time the movie wants to be a sentimental tear-jerker . needless to say , it is no more credible as a soap opera . the film's second , and final , ending gives a blessed relief to those trapped in the theater . it was not rated at the time of the screening , but will undoubtedly be an r for sex , massive profanity , faked suicide and mature themes . the film would be acceptable for teenagers if they are older . on the other hand , no one of any age should waste their time with this asinine dialog . i give the film 1/2 of a star only because i have seen a few worse films . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
one night , during a torrential downpour that flooded the streets , we went to see -- what else -- hard rain . " so , are we all going to die ? " the answer is pretty much yes , but not nearly soon enough . and to add insult to injury , the supposedly dead , regretfully , often turn out not to be so . populating this bad tv-movie-of-the-week material are a host of talented actors . one can only hope they were rewarded handsomely for acting in this hopelessly muddled picture . besides the obvious hardships of acting most scenes while dog paddling in the water , they will all receive black marks on their records for appearing in this dismal movie . graham yost's script serves up one cliche after another for the actors , who thankfully managed to mumble quite a few of the lines . director mikael salomon's staging is so confusing that you may have trouble figuring out what is happening . christian slater , who is much better in his tender roles as in untamed heart , plays tom . the action sequences are repetitive and without much interest . they do feature lots of explosions and gunfire to keep you awake . christopher young's emotionless score for the film has a single trait , ear-shattering loudness . the characters have an infinite number of bullets and rarely do they have to bother reloading their guns . the weapons and the ammunition spend most of the time under water or being rained on but always fire perfectly . when one of the bad guys drops a gun into the water , it stays in the same place until much later when tom swims to get it , even though the swift water is so strong it is uprooting large trees . counting these improbabilities is one of the more enjoyable ways to spend your time as you wait for the characters to kill each other . the show has a single , but unprintable , good line . the show concludes with a sickening set of twists . the best that can be said of the picture is that it is merely stupefyingly awful as opposed to laughably bad . it is rated r for violence and would be fine for teenagers . 
a pseudo-intellectual film about the pseudo-intellectual world of art magazines , high art is as wasted as its drug-addled protagonists . in the only notable part of the movie , ally sheedy and radha mitchell deliver nice performances in the two leading roles , not that lisa cholodenko's script or direction makes you care much about either character . this does not happen in a single episode , but becomes more commonplace than sleeping in the picture . a typical scene has the editors arguing about whether a potential photographer's work is transcendental or merely classical . that no one has a clue as to the dogma they are spouting becomes obvious but not particularly funny . and the movie , except for the obligatory scene of someone almost overdosing , shows drug usage as being a hip and natural part of the art scene . this vacuous picture throws in a standard downer ending in an attempt to manipulate our emotions . in another movie , it might have worked , but in this one the reaction is likely to be decidedly muted . it is rated r for explicit sex , pervasive drug use and language and is not appropriate for those younger than college age . 
my giant is two movies for the price of one , but neither is worth the cost of admission , even if you get in free . as lamely directed by michael lehmann , the picture tries to be a comedy by using and reusing every giant joke in the book . languidly paced throughout , the movie becomes increasingly lugubrious as the screenplay by david seltzer ( the omen ) meanders toward its sad ending . since it's rarely funny or convincingly dramatic , what the filmmakers thought they were doing remains a mystery . other than a few nice visuals , there's nothing to recommend the picture . surely reading the one for my giant would have shown that there was nothing there . perhaps he thought he could ad lib it into success . or maybe he wants to be a dramatic actor and thought he could do something serious with the movie's somber tone . the most charitable thing that could be said about it is that it is so ineffectual that people will probably forget they saw it by the next day . this one-joke movie's single idea is to place real-life basketball player gheorghe muresan , who stands seven and a half feet tall , into as many visually striking situations as possible . and although he doesn't like it , he's willing to sign max up to do disgusting events like a wrestling match with a half-dozen dwarfs . ( the movie itself knows no bounds as it contains one of the most putrid and lengthy vomiting scenes ever . ) after a series of missed opportunities , the comedic part of the movie is over , and it turns into a cheap and maudlin disease movie . to be fair , the movie does contain a few good scenes - all of which you can see in the trailers . my giant runs too long even at just 1 : 37 . it is rated pg for violence and profanity and would be acceptable for kids around ten and up . my son jeffrey and his friend matthew , both 9 , gave the movie a single star and had nothing good to say about it . matthew pointed out that it " is not as good as it could have been or should have been . " he went on to comment that he did not like the way the movie changed completely in the middle . jeffrey complained particularly about how gross the movie was . 
when a film is produced on a shoestring budget by a couple of hardworking filmmakers and when it tells the story of a genuine tragedy , the easy path for a reviewer who hated the movie is to give it a pass . toss out your usual objectivity , ignore how many times you checked your watch while viewing it , forget how unbearable it was to sit through , and find some meaningless way to compliment it . this , of course , will be of no service to your readers , but at least you'll avoid the hate mail from the movie's fans . thus it is with a heavy heart that i review the movie paulina ( not to be confused with the recent movie paulie about a talking parrot ) . directed by vicky funari as a labor of intense love - she spent the last one third of her life on film - the movie blends documentary footage with historic and fanciful recreations to relate the bitterly sad and true story of paulina cruz suarez . i got to learn the film's background when i attended a screening in which the two women who made it were present . for those without such context , the reaction to the film may be that it is a parody of a bad indie film . the acting is amateurish , the story is maudlin , and it has all the visual appeal of a bad home movie . grainy and overexposed , the movie , shot on 16mm film and videotape , has little to recommend it . confusingly composed , the movie jumps about jarringly as it tells its story . quite bloody at times , the story , full of horrific images , seems designed to shock and repulse us . why else would you include a scene with a completely nude and bloody 8-year-old paulina ? this covers the both of them in a bucket of blood . but that does not guarantee that a movie about her will necessarily being good . i felt trapped in the theater watching it . only the opportunity to talk with the filmmakers afterwards made the movie bearable . the film is in spanish with english subtitles . it is not rated but would be an r for violence and nudity and would be acceptable for older teenagers . 
and phil is just one of the many quirky characters that inhabit shopping for fangs . made on a pittance , the film features an almost exclusively asian-american cast . as directed by quentin lee and justin lin , the movie is so amateurishly bad that it could almost be a parody of indie films . the picture is filled with stereotypes . from its opening scene of an attempted rape at knifepoint to its easy to guess ending twist , the script rarely has anything to offer . the story is so minimally developed that it feels almost like the actors were ad-libbing . one can only hope that the directors' next film will have some substance and some credible acting . it is rated r for sex , violence , and profanity and would be fine for older teenagers . 
hav plenty , as we are told in the beginning and reminded during the film , is a true story . life itself is a series of true stories , but most are not movie material . as scripted , directed , and acted by cinematic newcomer christopher scott cherot , hav plenty limps along at best . its dialog is so stilted - " you know what they say , 'no women ; no cry . ' " - that the actors are content to read the screenplay rather than invest much energy in trying to act it . he's a man who knows his mind , which he frequently shares directly with the audience in a series of trite and overly cute monologues . hav plenty's story doesn't go anywhere . at the end it subjects us to lee plenty's new film , which is a movie of the movie we've just seen , but with even worse acting . " remember folks that , as outrageous as this all seems , this is a true story . " hav tells the camera , but the problem is that it's not outrageous at all or even the least bit interesting . hav plenty isn't so much a bad film as it is a total waste of the audience's time . hav plenty runs 1 : 32 . it is rated r for profanity and would be fine for most teenagers . 
director doug ellin's kissing a fool , released earlier this year , is an aptly titled comedy about two plastic couples housed in an artificial story . like a sitcom with jokes so lame that it would be impossible to overlay a laugh track on it , the movie meanders along insulting the viewers' intelligence in almost every frame . the script by james frey and the director is filled with vapid actors who read meaningless lines you've heard before . max is played without any style by david schwimmer . schwimmer , whose acting talent is playing characters devoid of personality , makes an unlikely lover . neither the script nor the actors make this test believable . " the 64 , 000 question is : how do you know you're with the wrong person so you can avoid wreaking havoc on major parts of your life ? " jay asks in one of the unsuccessful attempts at adding some seriousness to the film . finally , there is the film's attempt at physical comedy . this is supposed to be funny ? most films have some saving grace . some bit part was done especially well or some scene managed to be funny even if the rest of the picture wasn't . kissing a fool , on the other hand , has nothing to recommend it . kissing a fool runs 1 : 45 . it is rated r for profanity and sexuality and would be acceptable for most teenagers . 
de palma , whose last great film , the untouchables , was crafted over a decade ago seems to have lost his magic . in snake eyes , he manages to elicit some of the worst performances possible out of a skilled cast . only gary sinise rises slightly above the hackneyed material . the rest of the actors become caricatures in this by-the-numbers thriller . ryuichi sakamoto's atmospheric and melodramatic music dominates almost every scene . heavy on the long violin notes , its rhythm is punctuated by thunder . ( the script by de palma and lost world's david koepp sets the action during a hurricane in an attempt to pump up the adrenaline level and the noise . spouting cliched and ridiculous dialog , he screams such lines as , " i was made for the sewer , baby ! " actually the line is more apropos for the movie as a whole . but most people in the film are not who they seem to be , and the thin script makes all of them easy to guess . the plot , which is told in endless flashbacks , concerns the assassination of the secretary through a scheme set up by some malevolent businessmen ? that adjective is , of course , redundant in hollywood thrillers . although a brian de palma film requires a certain amount of gratuitous violence , this one is remarkably tame for the man who became famous when he made carrie . the movie's outline has some promise , but the movie itself is leaden . the film takes itself all too seriously . at best , it is a 1940s-style b movie . a little humor would have helped the script some , but a complete rewrite would have been better . and , although i hate to say it , a different director would have been the biggest improvement . it is rated r for violence and would be acceptable for teenagers . 
perhaps if the impostors didn't have so much going for it , it wouldn't have been such a tremendous disappointment . written , directed , and produced by one of its two stars , stanley tucci , whose last picture was the indie smash hit , big night , the impostors almost never catches fire . sputtering like a two-day old campfire , the story plays like an ad-lib sketch that was never polished or completed . the film's other star , oliver platt , was hilarious as the senator's aide in bulworth . the bloated supporting cast is a veritable cornucopia of acting talent , including woody allen , steve buscemi , hope davis , alfred molina , campbell scott , lili taylor and tony shalhoub . all are wasted save allen , who plays a theatrical director who stares in disbelief at the bad acting before his eyes . ( the audience will easily identify with allen's sentiments . ) with the exception of a single original joke involving mirror-imaged subtitles , the movie engenders little genuine laughter . the stale humor is so embarrassingly bad that you will find yourself laughing sporadically at the picture rather than with it . the over-the-top script has the subtlety of a sledgehammer . at other times , we have the typical zany comedy routine where everyone chases everyone else , while darting in and out of staterooms . with the film's chapters introduced like placards at a vaudeville stage , it is clear the movie wants to be taken as farce . the press notes describes how everyone that came on the set remarked at what a good time all of the actors were having . too bad they weren't more concerned with the audience's potential enjoyment . the jokes , frequently framed in silence , fall like stones with such intensity that one can almost hear them hitting the ground . one wonders if anyone ever viewed the film's dailies . surely , if they had , they would have realized what leaden results they were producing . it is tricky having good actors play bad ones , but , if they couldn't pull it off , they should have just given up . the mystery is why they didn't all give up in the beginning . there must have been a better script somewhere for such a wonderful cast . it is rated r for a little profanity and would be fine for kids around 12 and up . 
perhaps if the impostors didn't have so much going for it , it wouldn't have been such a tremendous disappointment . written , directed , and produced by one of its two stars , stanley tucci , whose last picture was the indie smash hit , big night , the impostors almost never catches fire . sputtering like a two-day old campfire , the story plays like an ad-lib sketch that was never polished or completed . the film's other star , oliver platt , was hilarious as the senator's aide in bulworth . the bloated supporting cast is a veritable cornucopia of acting talent , including woody allen , steve buscemi , hope davis , alfred molina , campbell scott , lili taylor and tony shalhoub . all are wasted save allen , who plays a theatrical director who stares in disbelief at the bad acting before his eyes . ( the audience will easily identify with allen's sentiments . ) with the exception of a single original joke involving mirror-imaged subtitles , the movie engenders little genuine laughter . the stale humor is so embarrassingly bad that you will find yourself laughing sporadically at the picture rather than with it . the over-the-top script has the subtlety of a sledgehammer . at other times , we have the typical zany comedy routine where everyone chases everyone else , while darting in and out of staterooms . with the film's chapters introduced like placards at a vaudeville stage , it is clear the movie wants to be taken as farce . the press notes describes how everyone that came on the set remarked at what a good time all of the actors were having . too bad they weren't more concerned with the audience's potential enjoyment . the jokes , frequently framed in silence , fall like stones with such intensity that one can almost hear them hitting the ground . one wonders if anyone ever viewed the film's dailies . surely , if they had , they would have realized what leaden results they were producing . it is tricky having good actors play bad ones , but , if they couldn't pull it off , they should have just given up . the mystery is why they didn't all give up in the beginning . there must have been a better script somewhere for such a wonderful cast . it is rated r for a little profanity and would be fine for kids around 12 and up . 
as always , jacobi's acting is impeccable , but the movie tries hard and succeeds at being unentertaining and opaque . the movie convincingly argues that francis , played by jacobi , was a completely despicable and vain individual , but it never provides any insight into his work or any motivation for his attitude . starting with a burglary of francis's flat , the film uses loud sound effects that sound like they were lifted from a cheap horror movie . the camera shots are heavy on the avant-garde angles -- lots of wide-angle close-ups and distorted shots filmed through colored-glass reflections . the director is much more interested in filmmaking style than in the substance of the story with the result being a sterile examination of a lonely and vain man . daniel craig , in a lifeless performance , plays the burglar and boxer , george dyer . he thinks that francis's paintings have " no bloody use , " and the movie presents no counterargument . writer maybury barely outlines francis's character , and george and the rest of the supporting cast remain a complete enigma . we learn little of george other than francis's reason for liking him -- george's " amorality and innocence . " francis's love of sadomasochism is shown early and often . " boxing is such a marvelous aperitif for sex , " he reflects to george on the way to watch a boxing match . another of francis's favorite activities is viewing old movies of atrocities . sometimes the script throws us tidbits of francis's wisdom which illuminate little while merely sounding insightful . ( " i'm optimistic by nature . i'm optimistic about nothing . " we learn more details about francis's makeup techniques than about the man himself . mistaking francis's picture of a toilet for the genuine article , he urinates on it and then crawls back into bed contentedly . like a parody of a bad art house movie , love is the devil has horrid characters filmed bizarrely and confusingly by a director who is much more interested in technique than storytelling . by the end , the audience hasn't learned any more than it could have in a three-minute sketch . the film is not rated but should be considered nc-17 for violence , profanity , graphic sex , nudity and sadomasochism and is unacceptable for most teenagers . 
some talented actresses are blessed with a demonstrated wide acting range while others , almost as gifted , have more limited types of parts for which they are suitable . as was amply evident after basic instinct , sharon stone can play sensual roles with great abandon . janeane garofalo , for example , is no less wonderful an actress because she could have never pulled off stone's part in basic instinct ; neither is stone any less talented because she couldn't do garofalo's comedic roles . gloria , directed by respected director sidney lumet and adapted by steve antin from the 1980 screenplay by john cassavetes , was not screened in advance for critics , almost always a sign that the studio isn't behind the picture . after seeing it in a nearly empty audience after it opened , it is clear why they held it from the press . it is a film more to be endured than enjoyed . she also has a bad case of wavering and overblown new york accents , a disease suffered by much of the rest of the cast . not no broads . most of the film's leaden dialog is delivered with the emotive power of the automated time and temperature announcements . add in the movie's almost non-existent background noise and the excruciatingly slow pacing , and you can hear the sounds of the lines falling to the ground like stones . lumet places his actors in the frames like fruit in a still life painting . they stand awkwardly mouthing the stiff sentences that pass for discourse . ( " say you're my baby , " kevin coos demandingly . the movie has a plethora of logical flaws and implausibilites . and in one key scene , the yellow floppy he holds is assumed to be the right disk without checking it and is further assumed never to have been copied . think her maternal instincts will show up before the movie finally and predictably ends ? if you don't know the answer , you may be just the right viewer for this film . you have to say this for stone : she can keep a straight face . it is rated r for profanity , violence and brief male nudity and would be acceptable for teenagers . 
attention moviegoers : you are about to enter a meaning-free zone . should the sound system malfunction during your viewing of 200 cigarettes , do not panic . the film will work just as well as a silent movie . chronicling the meaningless lives of vain , yuppie types , the movie covers the same ground as the wilt stillman films ( last days of disco , barcelona and metropolitan ) but without any of his acerbic wit and the inviting style of his writing . first-time writer shana larsen makes the mistake of creating a couple of dozen characters and not giving any of them any depth . there isn't one of these characters worth caring about . the movie features such a cornucopia of hot young stars that it looks like a celluloid version of " people magazine . " and unlike people magazine , the people speak , not that they have anything interesting to say . structured as a series of relatively unrelated stories about her guests on the way to the party , director risa bramon garcia flits back and forth among her stars . she dares him to go immediately to a bathroom stall and have sex with her , which turns out to be neither erotic , funny or successful -- rather like the rest of the story . the movie gets its title from the carton of cigarettes that lucy gives kevin for his new year's eve birthday . as the movie finally draws to a close , the characters awaken from their post-party game of musical beds . the movie itself is so forgettable that by the time you reach your car in the parking lot , all trace of the film will have vanished from your mind , which is probably the best thing that can be said about the movie . it is rated r for profanity , sex and one dope smoking scene and would be acceptable for older teenagers . 
in the rage : carrie 2 , robert mandel's terminally bland sequel to carrie , there isn't a single original moment . only amy irving returns from carrie , and the talent of the rest of the sequel's cast is impossible to determine given the stupefying mediocrity of rafael moreu's script . as rachel , the horror story's lead , emily bergl gives one of the least scary performances in recent memory , but it isn't exactly her fault . the director asks for little from his actors , which is precisely what he gets . sporadically in this lame and lifeless movie , rachel will cause school lockers and windows to fly open , but generally she just mopes around looking like a victim . as the movie marks time until its big finale , it throws in some repugnant scenes , hoping to turn audience's stomachs . the teenagers in the movie are completely blas ? about it all . " doesn't it offend you that some girl offed herself yesterday , " asks one of the few kids with a conscience . " why ? " remarkably devoid of any energy , especially for a horror flick , the movie makes one yearn for a fast forward button on the theater's armrest . with material this bad , the film's only hope is to go for parody , but it isn't smart enough to realize it . even the mandatory epilogue is as pointless and predictable as the rest of the movie . it is rated r for graphic violence , teen alcohol abuse , sex , nudity and profanity and would be acceptable only for older teenagers . 
of the possible old television series to remake , " the mod squad " has to be one of the least promising . although it was one of my favorites from back in the late 1960s and early 1970s , its charm was highly tied to the era . rather than update the series , scott silver's the mod squad is merely a recast version . with less material than in one of the old episodes , the feature film script by stephen t . kay and silver is so thin it feels like an executive summary that you might present to potential financial film backers . figuring that today's generation not only hasn't seen the series , they don't even know what " mod " means , the introductory credits feature its dictionary entry . perhaps the confusing and convoluted storyline would have been helped by explanatory subtitles , but , since you're unlikely to care , it doesn't really matter . her intelligence enlivens a role that's little better than a stick figure . none of the characters have any depth , and the director doesn't come up with a single fresh scene in the entire movie . weakest of all is omar epps as linc , who was the best character in the old show . epps's inert acting makes his character less than two-dimensional . the time period for the movie is relatively indeterminate as the cars and sets are a mixture of stuff from the 1970s and the 1990s . cinematographer ellen kuras creates an exceedingly ugly picture , whose dark , grainy images make it look like it was filmed on cheap videotape and then later transferred to film stock . the film's jarring music by b . c . smith is full of bongo drums and a jazz beat in the style , perhaps , of the original , but it feels heavily dated and awkward today . yes , julie does get to say her signature " right on ! " line a few times , and linc is allowed one " solid , " but that's about as close as this remake ever gets to the genuine article . the original may not have been worth preserving for the ages , but it did have some class and style , qualities notably absence from this lame and lifeless movie . it is rated r for profanity , violence and sex and would be acceptable for teenagers . 
in order to adapt the rodgers and hammerstein musical classic , the king and i , for more modern tastes and sensibilities , the new animated movie employed no less than 5 writers ( arthur rankin , peter bakalian , jacqueline feather , david seidler and brian nissen ) . so what did this assemblage of script doctors come up with ? the sight joke in the opening sequence has him flossing away . and that's about as funny as this dead-on-arrival movie ever gets . the vastly altered story is so minimalist that the movie plays like a music video . between songs , the movie tosses the audience only the barest outlines of a plot . even this might be tolerable if the singing weren't so incredibly bland . if your kids , like mine , have never seen the original play or movie , they may come away with a very negative view of it . when you try to explain to them that this can be a sweet musical with some wonderful songs , don't be surprised if they stare at you in total disbelief . most amateur musical productions provide more lively singing than this motion picture production . i've criticized doug's 1st movie , the rugrats movie and other recent kids' movies for being no better than the television series upon which they are based . this version of the king and i , however , sets a lower standard . it isn't even as good as most kids' television series . the quality of the animation is particularly annoying . the characters lack proper fluidity , moving in small jerky motions as if the filmmakers tried to cut costs by reducing the amount of changes between one animation cell and the next . in addition , the animators need to study the natural movements of the human body . their characters walk with a spastic awkwardness , rather like a robot trying to mimic a human . the uninspired writers fall back on the old cliche of an animal companion as a way to pump up the comedy . this time they go for a simian sidekick , but he isn't the least bit funny . they also throw in a bit of the witch from snow white in an attempt to enliven the drama , but it is horribly out of place . do we really need a magic mirror in the king and i ? the truly frightening line comes at what looks like the end of the movie . " it's not over yet ! " the villain yells . chills went down my spine as i realized he was right . we had another quarter of an hour to endure . the king and i runs 1 : 27 , but feels much longer . it is rated g and would be acceptable for all ages . my son jeffrey , age 10 , said the movie almost put him to sleep . he gave it just one * , complaining that none of the characters or the songs were interesting . he thought the writers did an especially poor job of explaining any of the motivation , which made the story confusing . 
have you grown tired of the recent slew of lame teen comedies ? you know the ones . filled with sexual innuendo and crude humor , they feel duty bound to end in the big prom scene . well , trippin's writer gary hardwick and director david hubbard have a few new ideas to bring to this overworked genre . two to be precise . are you sitting down ? here comes the big inspiration . they've chosen an almost all-black cast . gosh , what an amazing concept . their second clever gimmick is that they decided to set half of the movie in a dream world . as his beefy bodyguards keep his screaming female fans at bay , he lets spew a stream of expletives that form his poetry . in a recent article in the new york times , spike lee bemoaned the fact that studios favor booty call movies about african-americans over more substantive ones like rosewood . he also told the ugly truth that audiences , of all colors , favor the former , so the audiences are as much to blame as the studios . trippin continues in the tradition of the african-american movie that insults african-americans by filling the story with racial and sexual stereotypes . the unfunny script is filled with extremely awkward snippets of dialog . while practicing a job interview in class , cinny comes up with a one-liner that would certainly bemuse any prospective employer . " i am the light that illuminates the answers you need to know , " she says . bet you've never been told that by an interviewee . cinny's cliched best friend , a pudgy girl who can't get a date , puts greg down some pretty hard to take , but obvious , facts . still , when the prom music starts , you know that this kid's luck will change . too bad the audience's never does . trippin' mercifully runs just 1 : 32 . it is rated r for sex , nudity and profanity and would be acceptable for older teenagers . 
li's days as a mild mannered librarian named tsui are numbered . the movie's whole purpose is to revel in obscenely violent action sequences . ) this movie could be dedicated to those adults who secretly crave hideously violent video games but wouldn't be caught dead playing one . let us count the ways . there's the garden-style sprinkler with enough acid to wipe out an entire gang with a single swirl . i'm getting nauseated . let's stop this disgusting enumeration . the movie works sporadically only as a parody of its own genre . even as a gorefest , it manages to drag frequently . perhaps the repetition just wears out your senses . to its credit the stunts are impressive . too impressive some will argue . but , for those of you who thought pulp fiction was too tame , this is the picture for you . the new release in the theaters is done with a surprisingly credible english dubbing . the 1996 video has english subtitles and doesn't have the new soundtrack . the film contains massive , strong violence , profanity and sadomasochism . it is inappropriately rated r since it is clearly an nc-17 film and should be treated as such by parents . ( the mpaa remains incredibly liberal about violence but is very squeamish about nudity . which do you think is more dangerous to today's teens ? ) if you're worried about your kids seeing violent images , this is the quintessential film for them to avoid . 
sometimes it takes a while for a movie to reveal its true colors . at this point you can already sense that the entire movie will be filled with such balderdash . don't be surprised if many members of your audience find themselves laughing uncontrollably at all the wrong moments in the movie's ridiculous plot . the film , which , sadly , is no parody , has more plot holes that pot holes on an old country road . the script by nelson demille , based on christopher bertolini's novel , is filled with cliched , unnatural lines . " let me be blunt , " the general tells paul . which one are you ? " now given that every room is lit for maximum atmospherics and given that the editor has a propensity for constantly cutting to ominous choppers circling overhead , do you think something sinister might be going on ? do you think the general might be involved ? the general's daughter quickly degenerates to the sleazy level of the recent film 8mm . the most repugnant part of the story is the way in which it exploits rape and rape victims for lurid titillation . the director has little regard for the intelligence of the audience . every move is so telegraphed in advance that the film contains little genuine mystery . characters are so obviously either bad or good that the costume department might as well have passed out black hats to one group and white hats to the other . the killer , in particular , is quite easy to spot . even the usually reliable james woods doesn't lend any credibility or interest to the film . in the same way the actors disgrace themselves by being associated with such a ridiculous movie . most deliver decidedly subpar performances in a movie that is already in trouble because of the script and direction . perhaps they will be lucky and the movie will leave the theaters before anyone remembers it ever existed . it is rated r for strong sex , rape , sadomasochism , nudity , violence , and profanity . since it pushes the limit of the r rating , it should be considered acceptable only for the oldest and most mature teenagers . 
with eerie old paintings , large human-like sculptures and creepy corridors , the house looks remarkably like disneyland's haunted mansion . the main difference in the two edifices is that disneyland's is comically frightening , whereas the haunting's is neither comical nor frightening . over-the-top action director jon de bont relegates the human stars to minor roles . since all of their performances are embarrassing , this is perhaps to their advantage . ironically , de bont's claim to fame is speed . most of the haunting appears to be on a quite different drug , valium . the tedium is more likely to bore you to death than scare you with its expensive special effects . only in the outlandish last part does the pacing pick up . as the story slowly advances , the house displays some of its charms . in canonical horror movie fashion , doors come alive and spirits move about . most of the time , however , the movie relies on lots of low base rumbling . the effects on audiences are likely to be profoundly muted . the movie works only if you can ignore how serious the participants are taking it and assume it must be a parody . the problem with this approach is that it's just not funny . " this is so twisted , seriously twisted , " theodora says . no theodora , it isn't , and therein lies the problem . the film is a lame retread of a hundred other similar horror movies , only the budget is larger . maybe de bont should have attempted something more challenging , say a shot-for-shot reconstruction of gus van sant's psycho ? the haunting runs a long 2 : 05 . it is rated pg-13 for intense horror sequences and would be acceptabe for kids 12 and up . 
if those crude bits of offensive language are all it takes to make you laugh , you may find bits of michael corrente's outside providence funny . most of this laughless comedy , written by the director and by there's something about mary's peter and bobby farrelly , only sporadically even attempts to be funny . his younger son is a " cripple , " so you can guess how shamelessly the movie will exploit the boy and his handicap . old man dunphy wants you to feel sorry for him , and the story gives him such stereotypically boorish behavior that there's no chance that you will . " it ain't easy being ozzie , when you ain't got no harriet , " he whines . girls are there too . don't ask ; the movie never bothers to explain . at least away from home he can avoid his dad and his beer-drinking buddies' poker games full of anti-semitic , homophobic and generally offensive language and behavior . you'd want to leave home too , if you had a dad like that . you don't want to try to follow his logic . like most of the movie , it isn't worth your time . in fact , if the farrelly brothers weren't associated with the movie , it would have undoubtedly never been green-lighted for production . always on the outlook for redeeming features to pathetic movies , your trusty critic found two this time . although richard crudo ( american buffalo ) films the interior scenes with a cheap-looking ugliness , the outside sequences happen mainly in a gorgeous , new england autumn in which the trees are bursting with their radiant fall colors . and , although there isn't a single laugh in the entire picture , the sign " three-fingered freddie's fireworks " is worth a small grin . outside providence runs 1 : 42 , but will feel much longer . it is rated r for drug usage , sexual references and language and would be acceptable for older teenagers . 
sometimes franchises just lose their appeal . other times , the concept is still viable but the material isn't worthy of them . for whatever reason , the latest muppet movie , muppets from space , isn't the least bit funny . the old muppet magic , seen in abundance in their last movie , muppet treasure island , is gone . two guys dressed like characters from men in black show up claiming to be members of the society for the prevention of cruelty to aliens . ever on the prowl for something to laugh at in relatively humorless comedies , i was able to find little this time . " i never disobeyed my mother , and i never carried the plague , even once , " he claims , as his eyes look to the heavens . the best that can be said of the movie is that it is so inoffensively bland that families need not worry about the ages of their kids . anyone can see the movie , but many are going to be disappointed . it is rated g and would be acceptable for all ages . my son jeffrey , age 10 , hated the movie , giving it just 1/2 of a star . he thought it was " dumb , dumb , and dumber " and never funny . his friend nickolas , age 10 , thought it was pretty funny , except for the ending , and gave it * * * . 
eventually his perfect coiffure will be marred , but , even with a few facial scars , his beauty will shine through . this is good since there is precious little else to do in the movie other than admire banderas . insults include such asinine epithets as " you pig eating son of a whore . " along with banderas , who is chosen to be the thirteenth warrior , are actors playing the 12 other warriors plus a large assortment of supporting cast and extras . since no visible acting occurs in the movie , there is little point in listing any more names . suffice it to say that most of the people approach their roles as banderas does , which is to spend most of the time in a pensive and vacant stare , as if he were contemplating why he let his agent talk him into this film in the first place . for the first 15 minutes of the movie , when most of it is in unsubtitled norse ( i'm not making this up ) , ibn goes north with the other warriors to save another settlement from a group so scary that they dare not call its name . these super strong bad guys like to eat the dead . unlike eyes wide shut in which the studio had to insert digital fig leaves in the form of people in order to obtain a marketable r rating , the 13th warrior suffers no such problem . after almost two hours of mindless and uninteresting action , the movie finally stops . never does it realize that its one salvation would as a parody . from beginning to end , it treats its subject with the seriousness of a documentary . not once does it have the good sense to lighten up . the 13th warrior runs 1 : 52 . it is rated r for bloody battles and carnage and would be acceptable for older teenagers . 
the movie itself is a recycled version of the original as well as every action picture you've ever seen . the video-game level plot can be summarized as : fight . shoot . the reason ? this lets them throw in lots of naked breasts so that the movie can have gratuitous nudity to go along with its gratuitous violence . erin never develops any genuine chemistry , positive or negative , with deveraux . as bad as it gets , which is pretty awful , at least you can say this for universal soldier : the return : it isn't pretentious . why it was released theatrically rather than going direct to late-night cable is its only mystery . 
robin williams's movies can be easily dichotomized into the brilliant ( awakenings and mrs . jakob the liar falls firmly into the latter category . with an extremely underdeveloped script by the director , peter kassovitz , the movie has maybe 10 minutes worth of ideas , which after almost two hours it stretches way beyond the breaking point . if it is supposed to be a comedy , it's not a funny one , not even a laughably bad one . and , if kassovitz intended to make a serious picture , then he should have created characters that were more than stick figures . the actors , who deliver uniformly bad performances , all fidget as if the canteen on the set served only large mugs of strong coffee . watching the actors cavort around is , frankly , rather embarrassing . the movie is one that will have you getting better acquainted with your watch . some slightly whimsical music is about as funny as the movie ever gets . the dialog for the serious parts is leaden ( " who knows more about human relations than actors and barbers ? " overall , the story is so underdeveloped that it's almost inert . usually , when robin williams fails , it's with shamelessly schmaltzy acting as in patch adams . this time he makes the mistake of offering his viewers an almost lifeless character that makes passing the time while waiting for the ending credits extremely tedious . let's hope that next time will be one of his good movies . no -- we're due . jakob the liar runs a very long 1 : 55 . it is rated pg-13 for violence and disturbing images . think of the movie , with its scenes of graphic torture , as an r . 
too bad the actors , in this imitation of a bad sitcom pilot , couldn't get their names removed from the credits . the dogs , who only drool and smile , deliver more lively and interesting performances . they are all vapid . in the few , the very few , times the movie approaches even mildly cute , the director kills the moment , almost as if he were trying to keep the movie from being funny . although marketed as a romantic comedy , in truth the movie belongs to a genre that might be called laughless non-romances . the studio did not screen the film in advance to critics in the hope , one suspects , that some people would see it before the word got out as to how bad it was . as in a daytime soap opera , the characters are captured in periodic shifts of their musical beds . in fact , you could probably write a better script from this premise than mcculloch did . " what you need is country and western music . " " what do you do ? " " i work writing classifieds , " he replies with his signature earnestness , as if his every answer had some hidden sad portent . " i've read your work -- some of it's pretty good , " she says . the scene , which is one of those with a modicum of promise , is killed by the dull tone that the director sets . when the two lovebirds , andy and lorna , go home to kiss , they look like a couple of adults trying to make fish mouths to entertain small children . surely these actors have kissed someone before . if not , they should have practiced in advance . maybe the movie's material was hopeless from the outset . i have spared the rest of the large cast from embarrassment by not mentioning their names . a sleep-inducing film , dog park simply has nothing to recommend it . it should have gone direct to video so that the lower price would make viewers feel slightly less cheated . it is rated r for sexuality and language and would be acceptable for teenagers . 
i have good news for you . you -- yes , you ! -- could be a filmmaker and have your name in lights . no , you don't have to go to film school . you don't have to think of a story . and you don't even have to film your movie ; you already have the ingredients on the shelves in your den -- those homemade videotapes . no , not those sharp looking new ones made with your fancy new camcorder . those old , grainy , shaky ones , in which your subjects ramble quasi-unintelligibly . your masterpiece can even win the " dogme 95 " seal of approval , which says that your film was made without use of artificial lights , sounds , props , etc . there is probably a story buried there somewhere , but it takes the press notes to decipher it , not that you'd care . the film is the first american movie made according to the dogme 95 precepts . sandwiched between long cinematic wastelands are periodic incidents designed to disgust us . ( the colors in the film are so far off that one can never be sure what the actual color was . ) in the story's pi ? ce de r ? sistance , a performer comes to entertain some kids . in another episode , an armless card player jokes about not having a card up his sleeve . " i don't really like it . it's too artsy-fartsy . " the father then goes on to describe part of a " real movie " -- a dirty harry movie . the father's mere description of a scene from that movie was better than the entire julien donkey-boy , a movie so edgy that you'd like to push it off the edge of a cliff . it is rated r for language , some sexuality and disturbing images . it would be acceptable for teenagers , who would likely be just as bored as the adults . 
body shots , directed by michael cristofer and written by david mckenna , is perhaps the shallowest movie of the year . like a porn movie stripped of most of its images , the film features characters who talk incessantly and obsessively about orgasms and oral sex . some sex is acted out , but mainly the characters appear to enjoy talking about sex more than doing it . with so many ludicrous scenes , it's hard to pick an example . before the first line in the movie is spoken , the director has one character urinate on a closed toilet seat and another vomit . the movie proceeds to flashback and work its way up to the alleged rape . they should be required to wear numbers so we can tell them apart . only livingston from office space manages to give his character any uniqueness . every scene in the film rings false . one character , for example , who has a desk among a sea of desks , plays a loud porn video on his office pc . the dialog is so ridiculous that it might be laughably bad if the actors would slow down long enough to let us enjoy its stupidity . " so , are you an aspiring actress ? " " you're a director ? " the movie reveals to men how women can tell a real gentleman from a fake . it tries to be a message movie as well as a sexual titillation film . " sex without love equals violence , " one guy repeats like it's his mantra . actually , the characters don't think any deeper than their sexual urges , which they share with us ad nauseam . eventually the hyperactive movie does get to the " rape . " slowing to a crawl , the story examines in laborious detail the two participants' view of what happened . or is the blonde bombshell telling the truth that it was date rape ? the movie argues that in such situations the truth is not knowable . the ending does at least bring out some emotions from the cast , but it is shamelessly manipulative and not credible . it is rated r for strong sexual content including graphic sex-related dialogue , language , violence and scenes of alcohol abuse . think of it as nc-17 and don't let your teens go unless they are older and mature . 
antonio banderas , fresh from his awkward performance in the disastrous the thirteenth warrior , makes his inauspicious directorial debut in crazy in alabama . a cinematic hash of stale ingredients lifted from other movies , crazy in alabama includes a wacky woman , a cheesy chase , a racial rebellion , an aspiring actress and stupid-sounding southerners . it's a comedy that's not even close to being funny and a drama about the civil rights movement that's not the least bit moving . griffith seems to specialize these days in giving clich ? d performances in roles that are already written as little more than caricatures . did i mention that the boxed head talks to her ? " it's not fair . it's just the way things are . " mark childress's script , based on his novel , is a treasure trove of eclectic lines -- sometimes ponderously pretentious and other times overly cute . " i just love the sounds of an authentic peasant accent , " a hollywood socialite , played by elizabeth perkins , says of lucille's speech . ) steiger tries without much luck to breathe life into the picture by recasting it as an over-the-top parody . in a movie that wastes vast amounts of money authentically recreating the mid-1960s , why do they let steiger wear the same 1990s designer frames that he has in real-life ? does this abysmal movie have any saving grace ? yes . the dazzling , vintage automobiles , like lucille's cherry red 1964 ford galaxy , look so new that you'd swear no one has ever ridden in them before . enjoy them as much as you can . they're the best part of the production . crazy in alabama runs a long 1 : 51 . it is rated pg-13 for some violence , thematic material , language and a scene of sensuality and would be acceptable for kids 10 and up . 
in louis morneau's bats , these unnecessarily maligned creatures are noshing on the residents of gallop , texas -- not that you'll care . a direct rip-off of the birds , although without any of its suspense and with no improvements in the special effects over hitchcock's 1963 classic , this cheap-looking movie never rises above the level of a popcorn flick . check your brain at the door , order lots of snacks from the concession stand and eat slowly . you won't exactly be entertained , but you'll probably stay awake as you munch away . so which actors set off your casting red flags ? for me they include lou diamond phillips and burt reynolds , although both , admittedly , have -- on rare occasions -- done some nice acting . kimsey will do and say more dumb things that you can count . the problem with the direction and with john logan's script is that both treat the laughably bad material with dead seriousness . only as a parody does the show have a chance . no matter how ludicrous the story gets , meyer acts like she thinks she's making a public health documentary about some genuine threat . sheila's black assistant , jimmy sands ( le ? n ) , in a heavily stereotyped role , at least tries -- without any success -- to elicit a few much needed laughs . " i like 'em , but at a distance , a real distance like on 'wild kingdom , ' " he explains to his boss sheila . among jimmy's other lines in the unoriginal script are : " houston , we've got a problem , " and " i don't know about the rest of you , but i don't want anyone moving up the food chain . period . " ( people say " period " a lot in this film . it's the writer's pedantic way of reminding you of the supposed importance of the sentence . ) the movie falls back on every tired horror movie clich ? . when you were a teenager , you might have had some fun and memorable times there . but in horror movies , nothing good ever happens to kids who visit one . and in this movie nothing good ever happens for the audience . enjoy that popcorn . it'll be the best part of the experience of watching bats . it is incorrectly rated pg-13 for intense sequences of bat attacks and brief language . having bloody corpses with guts everywhere and showing ferocious attacks , the movie clearly should have been rated r by the mpaa , not pg-13 . the film would be acceptable for those teenagers who aren't prone to nightmares , but the movie is inappropriate for anyone less than 13 . 
with the material for a great parody , the movie's worst sin is that the actors , who shamelessly overact , take it all quite seriously . a marketing phenomenon , the picture was released to just 300 screens but rocketed to capture a spot on the top 10 box office list the week that it came out , thanks to local churches talking it up . the religious thriller , produced by the trinity broadcasting network , can truly be called a thriller of apocalyptic proportions . avoiding any sex , nudity and even a single " darn , " the film , except for its gun violence , was carefully crafted in an attempt to appeal to a family audience . as a clue to his true identity perhaps i should mention that strange bombings , food shortages and epidemics have recently been striking the planet . their program has the 3d text dancing on the screen like a double-helix ballet . only as an old-fashioned b-movie , the type that got second billing on a kids' saturday afternoon double feature , does the omega code have any appeal . the delight of those movie was that everyone could hoot at them , and some of the kids would even throw popcorn boxes at the screen , as we all roared at how ridiculous the picture was . it is rated pg-13 for violence . the film would be acceptable for kids around 10 and up , but most kids of any age are going to be bored stiff and confused by the movie . 
" there are forces at work here that you couldn't possibly understand ! " no kidding ! and i thought stigmata was bad . unfortunately , this is one of the more subtle scenes in a movie that doesn't know when to stop . but we'll get to its excesses in a minute . suffice it to say that if members of the catholic church feel that they have to picket a movie , this is the one to go for , not dogma , which has been unjustly maligned . yes , this is a millennium film . think about it . ( for what could be done with a more intelligent approach , see the recent and wonderfully imaginative character study , don mckellar's last night , about the world's end . ) i will not tell you the intricacies of the plot so that you can laugh at it as i did . the only thing that makes the movie even partially bearable is the humor , most of it unintentional . in an intelligent but all too brief performance , kevin pollak plays jericho's sidekick , chicago . he also delivers most of the truly funny lines . " well , it's official , " chicago informs jericho . " i'm not sleeping again . " for all of its gore -- and there's lots of it -- the movie isn't the least bit frightening . it is , however , frequently gross and disgusting , not to mention sacrilegious and amoral . but , the movie tries to argue that " the devil made me do it . " its excesses , you see , aren't its fault . it's just trying to depict evil . along with the baby and the blood scene , the movie has other satanical delights . the devil is there too you see , and he made them do it . the cheesy dialog will have you shaking your head . ) moviegoers who count their enjoyment by the boom will be satisfied ; others will be disappointed and exhausted by it all . the film relentlessly beats you over the head with the material . only when it gets so ridiculous that it causes the audience to laugh out loud does it break the tedium . arnold , arnold , arnold , what were you thinking when you signed on to do this ? even if it has enough violence and gore to attract large audiences , you are better than this . " how do you expect to defeat me when you are but a man , and i am forever ? " the ending , of course , is never really in doubt , no matter how much bluster the devil manages . making audiences believe this will take a real miracle . it is rated r for intense violence and gore , a strong sex scene and language and would not be acceptable for those under 17 or 18 . 
granted , this is the low point of deuce bigalow : male gigolo , but the rest of the crude story isn't much better . needless to say , deuce will shortly destroy the place in a fit of bad slapstick antics . the movie's idea of comedy is to force deuce to cope with the problems of women with a wide variety of handicaps and unusual physical characteristics . funny , huh ? you're not laughing ? neither was i . and did i mention that this scene is repeated a half-dozen times ? so , was it ever funny ? i think i laughed once , but , for the life of me , i can't remember why . it is rated r for sexual situations , crude sexual humor , nudity and language and would be acceptable for older teenagers . 
atmospherics trump story in eye of the beholder , starring ashley judd in a hodgepodge of silly wigs . the resulting mess is a muddled and befuddled film that makes judd's last picture , the critically derided double jeopardy , look like a cinematic masterpiece in comparison . pulling out all of the tired , old clich ? s and trying to invent a few new ones , elliott gives us an ant's-eye view of walking feet in one scene and lots of flashing lightning in another . actually none of the cast manage anything approaching a decent performance . given elliott's bizarre direction , maybe the actors shouldn't be criticized too harshly . still , if you are one of their fans , you'll be grimacing a lot . the eye , who works for a secretive -- is there any other ? -- government agency , is trailing her using a variety of technical gadgets . it also fires bullets when necessary . they have long conversations , not that you'll care . the illogical and choppy script reminds one of a story told by a rambling first-grade student . some movies are frustrating because you can't figure out where they are heading . eye of the beholder is even more infuriating because you realize that , not only do you have no idea where it's going , you don't even care . are there any interesting parts to this putative thriller ? i counted two . once , when i closed my eyes , which i should have done more often , i realized how nice the music was when the ridiculousness of the visuals didn't intrude . the other , a bit of eye candy , occurs during a bath scene at a hotel . for judd's many adoring male fans , the scene provides an apt metaphor for their perpetually unrequited love . it is rated r for some strong violence , sexuality , language and brief drug content . the picture would be acceptable only for older teenagers . 
chaos . it's the name of the baby in the ironically named beautiful people by first-time writer/director jasmin dizdar , but chaos would have been a more appropriate name for this unappetizing mess of a movie . not 15 minutes into the film and we've already been introduced to dozens and dozens of characters . but thanks to the choppy editing and dizzying handheld camerawork -- is purposely shaking the camera really necessary to attempt cinematic pseudo-realism ? -- the movie is like an incoherent story told by an inebriated guest . get your checklist ready because most of society's ills will make brief guest appearances . but they fly by with such velocity that you'll have trouble pondering anything for long , although you will get the director's point about life being hard and grim . he makes lots of other points too . keep that checklist handy . messages zip by like super bowl commercials . the movie plays fast and loose with plausibility in the hopes of getting some cheap laughs . the filmmaker would appear to have us believe that it is a cultural thing and that the soldier doesn't realize how inappropriate his speech is . it's a tedious film that isn't saved by its moral ambitions . like a rambling preacher , dizdar has a lot on his mind , but his lack of focus and his inability to create fully developed characters means that his good intentions never amount to anything . sometimes less really is more . 
s ? ren kragh-jacobsen's mifune ( mifunes sidste sang ) is a dogma 95 film -- you know the drill , no artificial lights , props , music , etc -- that feels like a documentary about a family about whom you couldn't care less . like a 200 pound toddler going through the terrible twos , rud isn't an easy man to care for . hjejle has a tenderness which makes some of her scenes almost watchable , something that can't be said of most of the rest of the picture , which drags on and on . the characters' squabbles and tribulations are rarely compelling . in a film in which minutes seem like hours , the proof of its lack of interest comes in a tragic scene near the end . when the director tries to manipulate our emotions by making it appear that one of the characters has died , the reaction is relief , not sympathy . we mistakenly believe that the movie has finally ended , but then it goes on for another half of an hour . but , then again , maybe it wasn't that long . one's notion of time gets distorted watching mifune the film is in danish with english subtitles . it is rated r for strong sexuality and language and for some violence . it would be acceptable for older teenagers . 
john schlesinger's the next best thing , starring rupert everett and madonna , goes all the way from being a light-hearted comedy to a tragic tear-jerker . but , since none of the sentiments ever seem genuine , the film is never funny or moving . our audience stared silently at the picture with all of the emotional outpouring of someone who had mistakenly walked into the funeral of a stranger . among the film's many annoying aspects is the lighting . this gives the movie the feel of one long photo shoot and reinforces its lack of reality . sam is the most plastic of all of the characters . he's perfectly happy , healthy and unaffected , even when the adults around him scream and threaten awful things . even in the morose last act , sam's negative emotions are awol . the mean-spirited and ugly concluding segment tries hard to be kramer vs . kramer , except that it can't . the characters in that film were genuine . " you're embarrassed , aren't you ? " abbie asks robert at one point . one hopes and suspects that that is exactly how madonna and rupert everett feel for foisting this travesty upon their fans . the next best thing runs 1 : 45 . it is rated pg-13 for mature thematic elements , sexual content , partial nudity and language and would be acceptable for teenagers . 
black and white , written and directed by james toback , is for filmgoers who like fast-paced movies that assault their senses with a plethora of stereotypes . most of the blacks in the movie are criminals who appear to have low iqs . neither race comes off very well . given toback's last film , the insufferable two girls and a guy , perhaps one should not be surprised by how atrocious black and white is . a good cast of thousands is wasted in a movie with a script that feels like it was torn apart and reconstructed at random . there are more subplots and characters than you can count . removing the profanity would leave these kids -- black and white -- with almost no dialog save some filler phrases like " what's hapnin' ? " " it's all bs , " says one of the characters . and so is this disgusting and unappealing movie . it is rated r for strong sex scenes , drug usage , massive profanity and violence . the film would not be appropriate for most teens , who will undoubtedly represent 90% of the audience in most theaters . 
preposterous with a capital p . the skulls is directed with ham-handed excess and predictability by rob cohen , who last gave us sylvester stallone in the ludicrous daylight . daylight , on the other hand , was a masterpiece of plausibility and subtlety next to this absurd film . the young cast of the skulls , mainly television and celluloid heartthrobs , play characters who have the moral compass of people in the presence of strong magnets . as scripted by john pogue , the would-be thriller has a swiss-cheese plot that provides many unintentional laughs . the over-the-top cinematography ( shane hurlbut ) is heavy on bright lights bathing every room , and the creepy music ( randy edelman ) sounds like an amalgamation of every thriller made in the past decade . the movie's pretentious opening text claims that at least 3 of our presidents have been members of such societies , which appear to occur only in ivy league colleges . just to erase any doubt , the edifice has a big skull on top . so much for secrecy . once we get inside the building , it gets worse . the set looks like a gothic dungeon , complete with flaming torches , that appears to be on loan from a mel brooks comedy . want to venture a guess as to what might happen to will ? one could write a small book on the plot's implausibilities . he is in a coffin on a large , concrete lily pad , along with a bunch of other swell fellows like himself . actually , they are all filthy rich and not at all like him , but that's just another of the plot's nonsensical elements . any guess on the accent of such a senator ? this should be taken as a hint as to what will follow . in the meantime , the guys have a heck of a good time . caleb -- first among equals -- gets a " date " for each arm . but not all is well in skulldom . it is at this point that the already ridiculous story goes seriously downhill . a character is a drugged-out , drooling vegetable one minute and , the next , is carrying on a lucid discussion of complicated issues . and the list goes on and on , ad nauseam . perhaps the skulls was meant to be taken as a parody . let's hope so . it is rated pg-13 for violence and language and would be acceptable for teenagers . 
frequency isn't the only time-travel movie playing now at your local cinema . after spending what feels like over a dozen hours in the theater watching the flintstones in viva rock vegas , you'll find that director brian levant has managed to transport you back in time to just an hour and an half after you entered the theater . an even better trick , of course , would be for him to give you back all of your wasted time . in order to improve the motion picture's bottom line , the second live-action flintstones is a prequel , not a sequel . this allows the studio to hire significantly cheaper actors than the original cast which included john goodman , elizabeth perkins , rick moranis and rosie o'donnell . and if you think the first movie was bad , wait until you see this one . or better yet , don't . the winner of the competition for the most gratingly awful member of the cast has to be stephen baldwin , whose stupid smile is permanently chiseled in stone . the only bright spot in the casting is alan cumming as a deliciously impudent little green alien named the great gazoo . what , you may ask , is this monster with a face the color of industrial sludge doing in this movie ? the production's intentionally cheap looking sets manage to look cheap but not funny since there's little imagination showing in their designs . about as amusing as the movie ever gets is in the choice of the name of its villain , chip rockefeller , a dastardly hotel magnate played without any oomph by thomas gibson . " this is going to be fun , huh ? " well , one hopes that the actors had fun running around barefoot , wearing ridiculous animal skins , and acting like morons since most viewers will not be able to share in the fun . the great gazoo calls the show's dynamic duo , fred and barney , a pair of " prehistoric imbeciles , " something you may feel like after being so foolish as to purchase tickets for this poor excuse for a movie . it is rated pg for innuendo and brief language and would be acceptable for all ages . my son jeffrey , age 11 , thought the movie was only pretty good , giving it * * 1/2 . 
" can't trust anyone , right ? " if the film had railed so against blacks , there would be pickets in the lobby . but not to worry , the film's vituperative dialog by evelina fern ? ndez , wife of the director , jose luis valenzuela , is so preachy and stilted that it's hard to take offense . it's equally difficult to get interested in any of the clich ? d characters . living in what looks like the lap of luxury , they have nothing better to talk about than the size of male private parts . it's a split decision . and the film , which has all of the production values of a tv movie of the week , never moves beyond such childish diatribes . if you're going to fill a film with insults , at least write them a little more convincingly . it is rated r for language and sexuality and would be acceptable , although certainly not recommended , for high school seniors and older . 
frequency isn't the only time-travel movie playing now at your local cinema . after spending what feels like over a dozen hours in the theater watching the flintstones in viva rock vegas , you'll find that director brian levant has managed to transport you back in time to just an hour and an half after you entered the theater . an even better trick , of course , would be for him to give you back all of your wasted time . in order to improve the motion picture's bottom line , the second live-action flintstones is a prequel , not a sequel . this allows the studio to hire significantly cheaper actors than the original cast which included john goodman , elizabeth perkins , rick moranis and rosie o'donnell . and if you think the first movie was bad , wait until you see this one . or better yet , don't . the winner of the competition for the most gratingly awful member of the cast has to be stephen baldwin , whose stupid smile is permanently chiseled in stone . the only bright spot in the casting is alan cumming as a deliciously impudent little green alien named the great gazoo . what , you may ask , is this monster with a face the color of industrial sludge doing in this movie ? the production's intentionally cheap looking sets manage to look cheap but not funny since there's little imagination showing in their designs . about as amusing as the movie ever gets is in the choice of the name of its villain , chip rockefeller , a dastardly hotel magnate played without any oomph by thomas gibson . " this is going to be fun , huh ? " well , one hopes that the actors had fun running around barefoot , wearing ridiculous animal skins , and acting like morons since most viewers will not be able to share in the fun . the great gazoo calls the show's dynamic duo , fred and barney , a pair of " prehistoric imbeciles , " something you may feel like after being so foolish as to purchase tickets for this poor excuse for a movie . it is rated pg for innuendo and brief language and would be acceptable for all ages . my son jeffrey , age 11 , thought the movie was only pretty good , giving it * * 1/2 . 
screwed is exactly what people will feel like if they make the mistake of wasting their hard-earned dollars on this turkey . amateurishly acted , with one exception ( danny devito who manages to have a high old time chewing up the scenery ) , and crudely written and directed by scott alexander and larry karaszewski , screwed will have many viewers wanting to head for the exits well before the end of the first reel . if funny names are all that it takes to make you laugh , then you might get a kick out of screwed , which also likes to give its characters names that are humorously based on past presidents and presidential candidates . without a genuine moment or character and with an uncountable number of scenes that will have you looking away from the screen , screwed tries hard to be awful and succeeds . finally , it hit me that this whole movie must be one long ( bad ) inside joke . the writers and directors of screwed collaborated on the scripts of many other successful pictures -- i know that's hard to believe . one of them was ed wood , the biography of the director of some of the worst films ever made . if ed wood were alive today , screwed would be exactly the type of movie that he would be making . it is rated pg-13 for crude and sex-related humor , nudity , language , some violence and brief drug content and would be acceptable for older teenagers . 
in greg harrison's ironically titled groove , the action is anything but groovy . the best way to summarize groove is that it is human traffic , denuded of all of that film's energy . an emotional zero , groove could be considered a strong anti-drug movie . after all , if drugs are this boring , why would anyone buy them . " you can relax -- it's just a party , " leyla ( lola glaudini ) tells a pseudo-nervous david ( hamish linklater ) . david needn't worry since everyone is so relaxed that a massive sleeping sickness appears about to strike at anytime . the movie would have us believe that they are planning a big heist , except -- hello ! -- the title of this movie is groove , remember . about the only joke in this lifeless movie is the password phrase used to purchase drugs . you say , " i'd like to buy a vowel . " with unreal characters that utter meaningless dialog , the movie drifts along on a drug-induced cloud of blissful shallowness . this typical interchange from the movie best summarizes the script's depth : " so ? " " so ? replies david . or was it the other way around ? it doesn't matter . nor does anything else in groove . groove runs 1 : 26 . it is rated r for drug use , language and brief sexuality and would be acceptable for college students , although i would not suggest that anyone waste their time on this piece of drivel . 
in boys and girls freddie prinze jr . delivers a lame performance that appears almost to be a parody of himself as an actor playing a part . with nerdy glasses and big hair that looks like it was parted by moses , ryan is not the type who succeeds easily with girls . that's really original . ryan and jennifer keep running into each other , and , as you can probably guess , their friendship becomes deeper than either one of them realizes . you , however , will care about none of this . thanks to robert iscove's lethargic direction and andrew lowery and andrew miller's laughless script , the movie creaks along like a car from rent-a-wreck . if the movie could have ever worked it way up to at least being insulting that would have been a welcome improvement . after this episode , however , the movie becomes as bland as the help-wanted slides that they play in the theaters before the movie starts . no . hold that thought . some of the slides show at least some inspiration . ) " you're pretty funny when you're depressed , " jennifer tells ryan . if you're heading for boys and girls , it will help if you find depression funny because you may be pretty depressed after wasting your money on this shallow story . it is rated pg-13 for sexual content and would be acceptable for teenagers . 
welcome to scream 4 ? with first-time screenwriter clark gregg's clich ? d script for what lies beneath , containing the worst ending of any movie this year , the only hope for director robert zemeckis ( contact ) would have been to try for a horror movie spoof . but this was not to be . to be fair , most of the movie isn't bad , it just treads water . the characters' actions are easily guessed and the movie borrows liberally from many other films , including , among others , rear window , fatal attraction and in dreams . but then there's that last reel when all hell breaks loose on the screen , and the script dredges up every unbelievable clich ? you've ever seen . the characters' actions become so preposterous that you'll be laughing out loud at how ridiculous it all is . insulting the viewer's intelligence left and right , claire will do everything that anyone who has ever seen a horror movie knows not to do . not many movies make me angry , but this one did . doesn't the director think we deserve better than this ? we can't be sure it's a ghost . this whole episode is kind of cute and the high point of a show that doesn't have many . finally , there are those ubiquitous trailers that contain more spoilers than i've ever seen . if you haven't seen the trailers , you may be able to enjoy the first part of the movie a bit more since it puts a little suspense into it . knowing the key points given away in the trailers make that impossible . still , whether you've seen the trailers or not , nothing would make a movie with such an insulting ending bearable . if you do go to the movie , walk out before the last ten minutes or so . you'll be glad you did . the film is very incorrectly rated pg-13 for terror , violence , sensuality and brief language . it should have been an r given the intense level of violence and fright . it would be acceptable for older teenagers . 
actually , " the rich and boring " would be more apropos . tasteless would have been a decided improvement . the in crowd , lamely directed by mary lambert from a vapid script by mark gibson and philip halprin , isn't the teen comedy that you might expect . it is a ploddingly plotted thriller that moves slowly in creaks and groans . so devoid of energy , the movie will have audiences calling out suggestions for the characters . in ours , some of the audience's catcalls would have been an improvement . to be fair , almost any change would have been an improvement . it is easy to see why the movie wasn't screened in advance to critics . the title refers to adrien's lack of status since she isn't one of " the in crowd . " closet lesbianism is one of the movie's few subplots . the superwealthy , we find , have incredible bodies -- with waists the size of small tree limbs , tans over every millimeter of their skin and , in the case of the girls , prominent breasts . it is amazing what money will do for you . people will die , but you will not care . people will be falsely accused , and , again , you will be completely indifferent , as there isn't a genuine moment in the story . the movie does ask two important questions . it is rated pg-13 for violence , sexuality , language , drug content and brief nudity and would acceptable for most teenagers . 
gosh , aren't fart jokes funny ? and if you've blown upwards of fifty bucks to take your family to the movies , you'll certainly want lots of them for your entertainment dollar . how about flatulence so intense that it literally sets a restaurant on fire ? now , that would really be funny . right ? the only commendable part of the production is the amazing make-up effects that allow murphy to look like a wide variety of obese characters . the writing credits for this abomination are shared by no less than 5 writers : steve oedekerk , barry w . blaustein , david sheffield , paul weitz and chris weitz . the movie will probably make a bundle , but , surely , they could have come up with more imaginative material than this smelly batch of recycled bathroom humor . they even stoop to having an octogenarian mistakenly eat a large piece of feces . this " r " movie , which is incorrectly rated pg-13 , is actually written with dumbed-down humor that seems designed to appeal to 8-year-old boys' crude sensibilities . but , the movie would certainly not be appropriate for anyone younger than their teenage years . among other offensive scenes are those of killer turds and an animal having anal sex with a human . moreover , crudeness does not equal funny , as the renowned farrelly brothers ( there's something about mary ) demonstrated recently in me , myself & irene , a much better film than nutty professor ii . at least the mpaa correctly rated me , myself & irene as an r . both films share about the same level of coarseness in their brand of attempted humor . there are plenty of subplots involving the rest of the fat klump clan . " i've been taking them like m&ms . " i tried hard to think of good things about the movie other than the make-up . all i can come up with is that janet jackson , as the professor's girlfriend , does have a particularly inviting smile . ( another would be that murphy mumbles half of his lines , which partially spares us from some of the film's inanities . ) that's it . if you're still dead set on wasting your money on this film , don't say i didn't warn you . it is officially rated pg-13 for " crude humor and sex-related material . " consider it an r . it would be acceptable for most teenagers , but i'd certainly advise against anyone seeing it . 
and the corollary to this rule , in the case of time regained ( le temps retrouv ? ) , is that if you haven't read the seven volume set of novels called " remembrance of things past " by marcel proust , the movie will probably be completely impenetrable . ( actually , i'm not so sure that those who have read the full set will be able to follow time regained , written and directed by ra ? l ruiz , but i'm willing to give the film the benefit of the doubt and assume that anyone who has invested the time to read the entire seven volume set will love the film . maybe this explains why well-respected critics have differed so widely on their evaluation of the film , with some giving it their absolute best rating and others their absolute worst . at any rate , this review will apply only to those who haven't read the books . ) watching these snippets feels like one is seeing a twenty-plus episode soap opera which some maniacal editor has hacked up and reassembled into something one tenth of the original size . the result is a confusing and obtuse mess . the collage of clips leaves us with many questions , chief among them : who are all of these characters ? how does this scene fit in with any of the other scenes ? and why should we care ? the more time and energy we devote to the story , the less we care . only the production has much to offer . some scenes are like beautifully faded picture postcards from a bygone era . as the music comes up , others appear to be the introduction to grand opera , except that the diva never quite breaks into her aria . finally , many scenes appear to be something out of a peter sellers comedy in which all of the funny lines have been removed . the movie has a strong cast , including catherine deneuve and emmanuelle b ? art . the less said , however , about john malkovich's performance as a sadomasochistic baron , the better . the movie is not without its treats . time regained runs an extremely long 2 : 35 . the film is in french with english subtitles . it is not rated but might be pg-13 for adult themes and would be acceptable for teenagers . 
how's this for an original concept ? pretty tired . the twist , of course , is no twist at all since anyone with any intelligence whatsoever can guess it . all of this might be ignored if there was good acting or a bright script . the movie , which badly wants to be a there's something about mary version of diner , has a script that is disgustingly crude but almost never funny . its repulsive humor includes anal-oral sex on someone who suffers from diarrhea . the film's four obnoxious fellows like to hang out at their favorite diner and talk dirty -- very dirty and very loud . their shoot their favorite questions at each other -- " did you nail her ? " " did you stuff her ? " -- with salivating coarseness . the movie's harsh sound makes listening to them about as enjoyable as enduring a heavy rainstorm under a cheap metal roof . he carefully dispels this notion by confiding to the camera that he isn't homosexual and is just more in touch with his feminine side than his friends . and in the third and final act , their situation gets resolved exactly as you would expect . consider what this movie teaches the teenage and young adult audience for which the movie is clearly aimed . the movie reinforces this by making the sex acts themselves happen fast and under cover . after making sex so filthy , they certainly wouldn't want to show it to us . the act of love is considerably cheapened by this film without any comedic payoff in return . our packed audience , which had just the right demographics for the picture , produced only sporadic and scattered laugher . on a more positive note . the film is short -- albeit not near short enough . it is rated r for strong sexual content and language and would be acceptable for college students and older . 
chris fiore's backstage , a documentary about touring hip-hop groups from roc-a-fella records and def jam recordings , is a movie for hip-hop fans only . but even die-hard hip-hoppers will probably be disappointed by backstage's proclivity for teasing its audiences with brief excerpts rather than complete songs from the groups' touring concert footage . starring jay-z , dmx , method man , redman , ja rule , and bennie seagel , the movie does have energetic pacing , but i'm at a loss to find anything else good to say about it . with its shameless self-promotion , the documentary could just as easily have been a television infomercial were it not for the movie's plethora of profanity and its sexual episodes . among its low points are the scenes involving the groupies that hang around the stars . on these , fiore has added " cute " little sayings like " your face here " and " your ad here . " see , he is saying , you too could hang around these guys and degrade yourself just like these women . it's a message that we certainly could have done without . many of the scenes have " staged " written all over them . one of the groups , for example , shows us a copy of good will hunting to prove that they watch more than just gangster movies . the performers , in one of their many commercial moments , brag that hip-hop outsells all other types of music . this , for all i know , may be completely true . but their saying it smacks more of gratuitous self-promotion than anything else . let me remind fiore that good documentaries can appeal to a wide audience . this one ignores that rule entirely in favor of cheap theatrics . and , as i've already said , this film doesn't deliver as it should even for its intended audiences . it is also haphazardly edited and poorly shot . many much better films than this one have been unable to obtain a theatrical release , so it is a shame to see this one getting released to theaters . it should have gone directly to video . backstage runs 1 : 39 . 
bruce paltrow's duets , a would-be comedy about competitive karaoke singing , is about as much fun to watch as a bad karaoke singer . actually , it's worse , since the karaoke singers in the film aren't bad enough to laugh at . instead , too many of them are so good that you wonder if they're lip-synching . with its low energy and its leaden script , the movie has almost nothing going for it except the presence of bruce's daughter gwyneth in the cast . watching the intelligent gwyneth paltrow trying to play a dumb character like liv is at best disconcerting and at worst embarrassing . about the only part of their routine that's memorable is liv's beatific smile . the movie's best on-going joke involves todd's inability to use any of his 800 , 000 frequent flyer miles . " it's a rush like you won't believe ! " replies one of its participants . one of the many problems with duets , besides being a comedy that's not funny , is that this " rush " is never present on the screen . the movie leaves us with one question . why did gwyneth paltrow agree to do this movie ? sometimes even parents have really bad ideas . duets runs 1 : 52 . it is rated r for language and some sexuality and would be acceptable for most teenagers . 
so what do you get when you cross two bad movies ? nothing good , that's for sure . mixing large doses of a preposterous , high-tech , crime drama with smaller amounts of a lame , slapstick comedy , antoine fuqua's bait , starring jamie foxx as doofus crook alvin sanders , doesn't give moviegoers any reason to see it . a completely derivative film , it steals its clich ? s from other movies but finds no ways to improve upon them . much is made of it being prawns and not shrimp . how silly does it get ? alvin is so dumb and the comedy is so stupid that he's proven guilty by a shrimp behind his ears . excuse me , a prawn . the underwritten script by andrew and adam scheinman and tony gilroy falls back on retreads of lines that were pretty ludicrous the first time you heard them . " exactly how many laws are we breaking here ? " " you don't want to know , " he replies . in order to fully comprehend how bad bait is , let's review some of its many inanities . the film's overly sleek look is photographed in hazy steel blues and grays with shadows everywhere and lots of luminescent computer screens . it tries , without much luck , to trick us into thinking that we are watching a movie with substance . in a film filled with low moments , none is lower than its ridiculous , over-the-top ending extravaganza , which includes baby endangerment . overacted and overdirected , bait should have gone straight to video . maybe late at night on the small screen , its many flaws might be been easier to ignore . the problem with bait is that editing out these flaws wouldn't have left enough to make even the trailers . it is rated r for language , violence and a scene of sexuality and would be acceptable for older teenagers . 
the best of the bunch could win the prestigious hitchcock award , something that urban legends : final cut would have no chance of winning . why don't they make sequels of movies whose characters we would like to know more about -- the big chill , for example ? the original urban legend , which is pretty bad , is a decidedly watchable movie compared to its schlocky sequel . with a homogeneous group of young actors playing almost completely interchangeable characters , the movie is slapped together by its director ( john ottman ) and writers ( silvio horta , paul harris boardman and scott derrickson ) like a toddler with duplo blocks . as blood splatters everywhere , the film uses every clich ? in the horror movie writer's manual , from stupid victims to loud noises . there isn't an incident in it that you haven't seen done before , and frequently better . there is simply no reason to waste your money on this movie , which wouldn't be worth seeing if it were the only thing showing in town . if you want to see a good movie about urban legends , urbania , currently playing the art houses , covers this ground with style , even if the film is a thriller rather than a horror movie . if it's a horror movie you're after , perhaps the best ever made , the exorcist , complete with new footage and a new digital soundtrack , is currently playing at your local multiplex . it is rated r for violence , gore , language and some sexuality and would be acceptable for high school seniors and older . 
don't be bamboozled . bamboozled , by acclaimed writer/director/producer spike lee ( malcolm x ) , is a preachy and pretentious social satire , featuring black-faced minstrels , that's quite embarrassing and never funny . the acting , worthy of an amateur improvisational group , is awkward with a capital a . and the film is extra long so that lee can beat us over the head with his message . easily the worst film of his career , it is so full of bad racial stereotypes that if a white filmmaker had made it -- remember the flack ted danson got for attempting black-faced humor -- the movie would probably be picketed . in a stilted , unrealistic and unconvincing performance , damon wayans stars as pierre delacroix , the only black writer for an upstart television network . " i h-a-v-e a c-o-n-c-e-p-t , " he says , accompanied with exaggerated hand gestures . racial slurs abound in the script . the didactic movie insults the viewer's intelligence at every turn . it's hard to pinpoint the lowest and most despicable episode in a story filled with vile moments , but the lowest of the low may be the television show's commercial . a bunch of wasted black actors swear by its potency , bragging that it's 120 proof . the film's ending , which shamelessly rips off network , transforms this would-be comedy into a highly manipulative tragedy . after bamboozled , anything spike lee does will be a huge improvement . bamboozled runs an excruciatingly long 2 : 15 . it is rated r for strong language and some violence and would be acceptable for high school seniors and older . 
lost souls , opening on a carefully chosen friday the thirteenth , is liable to elicit strong reactions from its audiences . the emotion realized , however , will likely not be what the filmmakers intended . the overwhelming feeling that the film imparts is pity , not fear . we feel sorry for the talented actors who perform their craft as hard as they can but have no hope of overcoming pierce gardner's uninvolving , unimaginative and unoriginal script and first-time director janusz kaminski's lackluster direction . the only moments of fright come from a couple of unexpected loud noises . you can create much scarier moments in the privacy of your own home simply by coming up behind someone and screaming , " boo ! " lost souls is a supernatural thriller that borrows so liberally from previous movies that you'll swear that you've seen it before . but , no , you haven't since this is a new movie and not a re-release . an academy award winning cinematographer ( saving private ryan ) , director kaminski has lost soul's cinematographer , mauro fiore , serve us some artsy images that look like homages to other thrillers from seven to stigmata . the truly awful stigmata is also the picture to which moviegoers will most likely compare lost souls . personally i'd prefer lost souls , but it's a close call . in defense of stigmata , it was at least laughably bad . lost souls is more likely to have you just staring at the screen . i know what you are thinking now , " been there . done that . " and if you want to see it done right , a re-release of the exorcist is in the theaters now . like the colonists saying " the redcoats are coming ! " when one of the movie's tag lines -- " they've had their 2 , 000 years . -- is finally spoken , it produces the movie's only big laugh , albeit an unintentional one . we learn that if your digital clock ever reads 666 , it's not a good sign . it is rated r for violence/terror and some language and would be acceptable for older teenagers . 
generic brands have revolutionized consumer products from drugs to cigarettes , so why not movies ? maybe the multiplexes of the future will dispense with marquee titles in favor of generic packaging labels like comedy , romance and action . if so , get carter would appear to be a trend setter , as you couldn't find a more generic action thriller than get carter . its dialog is superfluous . what little impact the movie has is due solely to its clich ? d images . the problem with this line of reasoning is that movies like get carter , starring pricey stars like sylvester stallone , can't be made on a pittance , so the tickets have to be full price if there is ever to be any hope of recouping the financial backers' investments . and , if moviegoers are required to pay about nine bucks a ticket for a bad movie like get carter , why wouldn't they choose instead a great one , like almost famous , for the same price ? get carter , as you may know , is a remake of perhaps the best known film of director mike hodges ( croupier ) . caine , replaced by sylvester stallone , gets a cameo part in this version , which is directed by stephen t . kay ( the writer of the mod squad remake ) and written by david mckenna ( body shots ) . the recent r ? sum ? s alone of the director and writer should give you pause . mickey rourke , an actor whose mere presence in a movie immediately raises a big red flag in my mind , plays carter's nemesis , cyrus paice . the movie is set , incongruously , in that hotbed of crime , that notorious underworld city of latte lovers and dot-com darlings -- seattle ! see what excessive caffeine will do to your brain . i completely agree . you don't want to waste your time and money getting to know jack carter , especially when the movie in the next screen would have to be better . it is rated r for violence , language , some sexuality and drug content and would be acceptable for older teenagers . 
pop quiz : what does book of shadows : blair witch 2 , the sequel to that indie smash hit the blair witch project , have in common with its ancestor ? but this time all they get are producers' credits , which they may want to see removed from this turkey . this time director joe berlinger , working from an obtuse script by dick beebe , joe berlinger , jon bokenkamp and neal stevens , creates a movie that so hard to follow that you'll be happy that it gives you no reason to care that you're confused . i wasn't a fan of the blair witch project , but it is a cinematic masterpiece of originality compared to its sequel , which is a bad example of a teen slasher flick . fright in book of shadows comes only from sudden loud noises . the episodes of sliced human flesh and spurting blood are gross , not scary . the basic premise this time is that a bunch of kids sign up on the blair witch project web site -- a movie that plugs it's own web site has a lot of gall -- to take a tour into the woods to look for the witch . while hanging out amongst the trees , the kids babble incoherent and perfectly ridiculous lines . " i think you're being a monomaniacal reductionist ! " i don't know about you , but that would sure shut me up . ( although they might more precisely be referred to as " young adults , " the characters are so juvenile that i will continue to refer to them as " kids " in the review . ) when the movie isn't trying , without success , to terrify us , it tries with even less success to amuse us with its self-deprecating humor . " video never lies ; film does , " says another . the sequel , you see , is done on film whereas the original was done on video with a motion-sickness inducing shakicam , so they are poking fun at their own movie . funny huh ? not really . the kids do find one flaw in the original movie that the film critics missed . ah , from the mouths of babes , . . . book of shadows : blair witch 2 runs just 1 : 30 , but you'll swear it was longer . it is rated r for violence , language , sexuality and drug use and would be acceptable for older teenagers . 
even if wes craven presents dracula 2000 -- what a modest title -- features the undead , the movie itself is completely and utterly dead . without a scintilla of new ideas , it rehashes the dracula legend . you know the drill . his love bites are quite messy , spurting blood everywhere . about the only variation in dracula 2000 is that chopping off the head of a vampire is said to work just as well as the old stake-in-the-heart routine . then again , maybe this has always been a lesser know rule of devamping . the film , scripted by joel soisson and directed by patrick lussier , features a group of b-list actors and b-list actor wannabes . only christopher plummer ( the sound of music ) , who phones in his performance , gives the movie anything even approaching credibility . any movie pretentious enough to include the year of the millennium in its title should be smart enough to include a fair amount of self-deprecating humor , as did godzilla 2000 . dracula 2000 , however , with its buckets of fake blood , still takes itself completely seriously . neither a comedy nor a horror picture , dracula 2000 plays more like a bad industrial video for vampire exterminators . it is certainly about as much fun as an instructional video , which is to say , no fun whatsoever . if there is anything worth laughing at in the story it is the stunning level of stupidity of the characters . after all , she reasons , " if it's worth locking up , it's worth taking . " here is something worth taking . take my advice . don't come anywhere near this comatose picture . but if you think that this genre is hopeless , rent a copy of larry fessenden's habit . now , that is a fascinating vampire film with some real imagination . wes craven presents dracula 2000 runs a very long 2 : 07 . it is rated r for violence/gore , language and some sexuality and would be acceptable for older teenagers . 
ratcatcher , the first feature film by writer and director lynne ramsay , could have been called bleak and bleaker . although the family lives in dire conditions , the movie is never able to define any of its characters enough for us to care about their plight . with this rambling movie , which is only slightly better organized than a home video , ramsay demonstrates almost no ability at storytelling . when the inevitable tragic ending occurs , you almost have to stop yourself from applauding since you are so glad to get this waste of time over with . it shows . the character has potential , but mullen's lifeless performance doesn't do much with it . as the characters go from tedious tribulation to tribulation , i found myself passing the time by observing how scottish english differs from american english . the subtitling for the film doesn't try to translate the words . it just records them to make them more intelligible for american audiences . among other words i found fascinating were : heid , innit and frae . my wife said it best . " the depressing thing about this movie is that it isn't depressing , " she remarked , shaking her head , as we left the theater . with circumstances this tragic , we should feel sad , but we don't because the movie is so poorly constructed and the acting so incredibly bland . it is not rated but would be an r for sexual situations , nudity , violence and language . it would be acceptable for older teenagers . 
zzzzzzz . in all the pretty horses , directed without an ounce of inspiration by billy bob thornton , the title almost says it all . the only possible things to admire in it are all the pretty horses since the human actors , with the possible exception of matt damon , deliver mind-numbingly dreary and lifeless performances . the horses look surprisingly average but , nevertheless , manage to upstage the lethargic people in the story . ted tally's thinly plotted and prosaically written script is based on cormac mccarthy's novel . going for the poetic , the script instead achieves the soporific . fully 45 minutes pass before anything of consequence happens , and , even then , it is nothing memorable . this might be somewhat tolerable if the actors were able to breathe any humanity into their roles , but they read their lines with the emotional impact of a teacher calling the roll . damon and cruz show absolutely no chemistry whatsoever on the screen , and the beautiful cruz is completely wasted in her part . the romance between john and alejandra not only doesn't have any sparks , it rarely even smolders . but no sooner have we hoped that this thread to the story will take off than it is dropped like a hot potato . in all the pretty horses , it is hard to know whom to blame more , the actors , the director or the screenwriter . the extra-terrestrial ) would be my choice for the worst part of the production . his lack of energy is so pervasive that it seems to suck the life out of those around him . the problem is that we have long since lost any interest in the characters . whether they live or die , we no longer care . all the pretty horses runs a long 1 : 57 . it is rated pg-13 for violence and some sexuality and would be acceptable for kids around 10 and up . most kids , however , are going to be bored stiff by the picture . 
let's start by clearing up one point . first-time writer/director david gordon green's george washington is not about the father of our country . in fact , the movie isn't about much of anything , which you will find out if you can manage to stay awake . with its minimal plot and acting , there aren't any characters worth caring much about even though the director tries hard to pull on our heart-strings with some contrived tragedies . although one can assume that the production had a written script , it feels like something from a junior college improvisational group . set in a graffiti-filled , rural south that looks like an inner city ghetto , the story wants badly to be the next stand by me . as the story's enigmatic lead , 12-year-old george , donald holden delivers an exceptionally bland performance . this is all so unbelievably written and acted that it is almost impossible to have much sympathy or concern for the kids , even the dead one . watching it is like observing some little children play acting on the street . the movie's saving grace , to the extent that it has one , is tim orr's vibrant , rust-colored cinematography . at its best , it evokes the lush sort of images found in the thin red line . and neither does the movie . it is not rated but might be pg-13 for mature themes and violent images and would be acceptable for teenagers . 
jamie blanks's valentine is as generic a horror movie as you're ever likely to find . starring a bevy of beauties who are sliced and diced by a killer with a big shiny knife and a baby-doll mask , the movie is cast with twentysomething stars acting like teenagers . they'll need dental records to identify you . " so sweet . so tasty . you could write the script yourself and undoubtedly do a better job . still , there are a few parts that aren't bad . so devoid of any imagination , valentine makes one yearn for such mediocre fare as i know what you did last summer . it's pretty pathetic when you find yourself wishing that you were at a better bad movie . it is rated r for strong horror violence , some sexuality and language and would be acceptable for older teenagers . 
psst ! can i interest you in some hot tattoos ? writer/director jo sol's tatawo is about sex , nudity , drugs and , most of all , tattoos . there's probably a plot hidden somewhere beneath this tattoo-laden tale , but you couldn't prove it by me . when the characters speak , they are less than illuminating . about the only reason to see the film is for the eye candy . as haunting music plays , it is hard not to fall under the erotic spell that she weaves . but this is a transitory pleasure and does little to compensate for the dreadful dullness of the rest of the movie . the film is in spanish with english subtitles . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
cricket . that's what they call lloyd in hector barron's the ugly kid . mrs . crub , the worst of the bunch , ridicules her pupils by saying things like , " you're here to learn . ignorance isn't something to be proud of ! " she is of the opinion that the kids would learn more if the school weren't so much fun . most of the acting , especially by the adults , is way below the level found in just about any television series on the disney channel . bosley tries hard to be sympathetically obnoxious but ends up being just obnoxious instead . our family was wishing that lloyd would make the whole movie disappear . and the sooner the better . it is rated pg for language and playground violence and would be acceptable for most kids . my son jeffrey , almost 12 , who is a 6th grader just like lloyd , thought the movie was absolutely terrible . he said that the acting and the plot were dull , boring and stupid and that there weren't any funny or exciting parts anywhere in the picture . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
saving silverman , by dennis dugan , the director of big daddy , has a poster with a giant-sized thumbs down . consider it a giant-sized omen , for this movie has more stale leftovers than a refrigerator two weeks after christmas . there isn't a fresh joke to be found anywhere in the script . your reaction watching the movie's grown-up teenagers is more likely to be yawns than laughs . no matter how many times the characters fall down -- i think the count runs into the hundreds -- it is never funny , not even once . when people aren't falling down , they do other " original " stuff like having food fights and making jokes about farts and masturbation . neither of the two leads are the least bit good in saving silverman . this might be expected , but the awful performances by steve zahn and jack black , as darren's buddies wayne and j . d . , are a surprise . the movie , which is crude without ever being funny , features such gross-out gags as a butt implant scene . stop me when you've finished laughing . to be fair , there are two mildly diverting parts to the picture . amanda peet's slit-down-the-middle , revealing blouses do add an undeniable eye candy factor to the film . watching the movie produces a similar desire . saving silverman runs 1 : 31 . it is rated pg-13 for crude sexual humor , language and thematic material and would be acceptable for teenagers . my son jeffrey , almost 12 , gave the movie * as well . he complained that it was utterly predictable and that he didn't laugh once . he said the characters were all dumb and stupid but not the least bit funny . 
the rest of the cast appear to be either escapees from a fashion shoot or wax museum versions of once famous action stars . harlin burns through more money than a pork-loving congressman feasting on surpluses as far as the eye can see . these car crashes look like every racing video game that you've ever seen , with the most spectacular being by far the most ludicrous . harlin has the camera come in so close that you can see every pore on the actors' faces and every imperfection on the tires' rubber . these close-ups are performed in nauseatingly fast , blurring pans and accompanied by rapid fire editing . kind of makes you want to puke . a sensation that the hackneyed script also induces ( " everyone falls down . it's just how fast you get up that counts . " " you should talk less and drive more . " sly's last film , get carter , was pretty bad , but it was at least watchable . it is rated pg-13 for language and some intense crash sequences and would be acceptable for kids around 9 and up . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
writer/director j . s . it's a movie in which one of the vampires is referred to as a " penthouse pet from hell . " since people can be low on substances from potassium to iron , perhaps they can also have a sleaze deficiency . if you're suffering from such a malady , the forsaken might be just the tonic for you . not going for b-movie parody as scary movie wisely did , the forsaken takes itself quite seriously , which is a big mistake . watching it isn't so much disgusting as it is just a colossal waste of time . the latter is undoubtedly better than the forsaken . you guessed it -- one of them flashes sean for no apparent reason other than the director told her to . as soon as the vampires arrive -- you don't have to wait long -- we learn that nick is a " hunter . " trust me , you won't care . the only thing that you'll care about will be found on the dial of your watch . " do you make a lot of money in the movie biz ? " let's hope that movies that waste our time and money like the forsaken won't make much at all . let's not encourage the studios to make such trash . it is rated r for strong violence/gore , language and sexuality and would be acceptable for older teenagers . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
going into the fast and the furious , about the world of illegal street racing , i was hoping for some trashy fun . sometimes getting one out of two isn't good enough -- all i got was the trash . perhaps it was the venue . i didn't see it at a drive-in , which is probably the only place that has any hope of doing this movie justice . as directed by rob cohen ( the skulls ) , it a made me yearn for another recent stinker , renny harlin's driven , which at least contained a little more stylish trash . most of the cars have a button like those on video game controllers that blast the characters into hyperspace . although the real stars are built of pure metal , the human supporting cast includes vin diesel , paul walker , michelle rodriguez and jordana brewster . computer generated actors would have sufficed . everything happens to such a heavy rock beat that the film frequently feels like a long music video advertisement for some new cars aimed at the youth market . at least the film never insults its viewers with any cheap moralizing . think of it as the anti-message movie . one of the movie's key adrenaline rushes comes from a combination drag and train race . oh yes , seat belts ? forget it . it is rated pg-13 for violence , sexual content and language and would be acceptable for kids around 12 and up . my son jeffrey , age 12 , gave it * * * , saying that he liked the car racing and the music . he couldn't get to a racing video game fast enough after the movie . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
it has to be a record . even with 7 writers ( alison fouse , greg grabianski , dave polsky , michael anthony snowden , craig wayans , marlon wayans and shawn wayans ) , scary movie 2 still couldn't come up with a single good scene . another record might go for the biggest drop in quality from the original movie to the sequel . scary movie was imaginative and funny , but its sequel is neither . long stretches of boredom are interrupted periodically by whispered groans of " yuck ! " although outrageous physical comedy can be hilarious , as there's something about mary proved , the mere presence of gross-out gags does not guarantee that something will be funny . let me take you on a tour of some of the humor misfires in scary movie 2 . in the restaging of the bedroom barfing scene from the exorcist , they appeared to have used the same special effects team that created the massive waves in the perfect storm , as huge wave after wave of vomit hits everyone in the room . the verbal jokes aren't much better than the physical comedy . " kiss my grits , " is one of the insults that , one guesses , is supposed to be funny . never has a movie franchise fallen so far so fast . scary movie 2 runs long even at a mere 1 : 20 . it is rated r for strong sexual and gross humor , graphic language and some drug content and would be acceptable for older teenagers . my son jeffrey , age 12 , gave the movie just one * . he said that it was sometimes funny and sometimes disgusting . the foul-mouthed parrot appeared to have generated the majority of his laughs . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
you can say this much for pootie tang , written and directed by louis c . k . , it isn't pretentious . pootie tang ( lance crouther ) is a crime fighter rather in the spirit of austin powers but with an extra dose of silliness and set in a black ghetto rather than in swinging london . the jokes , while always outrageous , are rarely funny . its humor tires not too long after the beginning credits have finished rolling . like a biography , we flashback to see pootie when he was a 6-year-old boy . by this time , however , you will have long since lost any interest in the movie . it is rated pg-13 for sex-related material , language and drug content and would be acceptable for teenagers . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
it has to be a record . even with 7 writers ( alison fouse , greg grabianski , dave polsky , michael anthony snowden , craig wayans , marlon wayans and shawn wayans ) , scary movie 2 still couldn't come up with a single good scene . another record might go for the biggest drop in quality from the original movie to the sequel . scary movie was imaginative and funny , but its sequel is neither . long stretches of boredom are interrupted periodically by whispered groans of " yuck ! " although outrageous physical comedy can be hilarious , as there's something about mary proved , the mere presence of gross-out gags does not guarantee that something will be funny . let me take you on a tour of some of the humor misfires in scary movie 2 . in the restaging of the bedroom barfing scene from the exorcist , they appeared to have used the same special effects team that created the massive waves in the perfect storm , as huge wave after wave of vomit hits everyone in the room . the verbal jokes aren't much better than the physical comedy . " kiss my grits , " is one of the insults that , one guesses , is supposed to be funny . never has a movie franchise fallen so far so fast . scary movie 2 runs long even at a mere 1 : 20 . it is rated r for strong sexual and gross humor , graphic language and some drug content and would be acceptable for older teenagers . my son jeffrey , age 12 , gave the movie just one * . he said that it was sometimes funny and sometimes disgusting . the foul-mouthed parrot appeared to have generated the majority of his laughs . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
the bland lead the bland in the musketeer , the three-thousandth screen adaptation of alexandre dumas's novel . his utterly lifeless and charmless work , however , is a bit better than the pathetic performances by the other musketeers , jan gregor kremp as athos , steven spiers as porthos and nick moran as aramis . the strong supporting cast is wasted . mena suvari ( american beauty ) , who can be so impressive in contemporary stories , is embarrassingly bad in this costume drama , playing constance bonacieux , a commoner who is a confidant of the queen . stephen rea gives an unintentionally funny performance as cardinal richelieu . normally reliable tim roth , as the villain febre , turns in a subpar piece of acting that is , nevertheless , head and shoulders above everyone else's . even catherine deneuve is flat as the queen . if you close your eyes and listen to david arnold's stirring music , you can convince yourself that the movie has some merit . just don't make the mistake of opening them again . " you have an interesting fighting style , " one of d'artagnan's enemies remarks . " where did you acquire it ? " i wanted d'artagnan to answer that he discovered it while watching chinese movies . now that would have been funny . and since the movie failed miserably as an action drama , any attempts at humor would certainly have been appreciated . it is rated pg-13 for " intense action violence and some sexual material , " and would be acceptable for kids around 6 and up . he liked some of the action sequences but , overall , rated the film as just okay . the more he thought about the movie ; the less he liked it . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
you can see her singing more in her music videos . not surprisingly , it is the only even mildly successful scene in the entire movie . almost overnight , billie rocks to the top of the charts , thanks to dice's promotion . carey's exceedingly modest acting talents will likely have her fans advising her to keep her day job . she can't come close to carrying the movie , which is what the weak script and the haphazard directing requires if the movie is to have any chance of succeeding . hers isn't just a bad performance . it's embarrassing . because of the ridiculous clothing choices and silly hairdos -- the film is set in the 1980s , but still -- billie is a laughable character . it's hard to believe that she achieves stardom . this is a woman who loves showing off her cleavage , so this false modesty isn't convincing . the worst part of the film , however , comes in a manipulative tear-jerker ending that contains a completely unbelievable coincidence . about the only thing that saves the film from being a complete disaster is the aforementioned , concluding song number , but it's certainly not worth waiting for , nor is it worth the price of admission . skip the movie and catch the inevitable music video of the movie's music . it is rated pg-13 for " some sensuality , language and brief violence " and would be acceptable for kids about 9 and up . my son jeffrey , age 12 , liked the music but hated the movie , giving it just 1/2 of a star . among his many negative comments were that the characters weren't worth caring about , the movie flipped around too much and the story wasn't interesting . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
jacques rivette's va savoir , which translates to who knows ? , would more aptly be titled who cares ? none of the characters are the least bit compelling . all of the actors ( jeanne balibar , sergio castellitto , marianne basler , jacques bonnaff ? , h ? l ? ne de fougerolles and bruno todeschini ) sleepwalk through their parts , and the director takes forever -- over two and one half hours -- to say almost nothing . finally , there is a play within the movie that is -- one assumes -- supposed to be almost laughably bad . the irony is that the movie itself isn't much better . " it can't go on like this , " camille ( jeanne balibar ) remarks about a half hour into the movie . sadly , it does . this much can be said in the movie's defense . at least its extremely bland trailer accurately represents the movie itself . you can't say that about many films . the film is in french and italian with english subtitles . it is rated pg-13 for " brief nudity " and would be acceptable for kids around 11 and up . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
neeson and richardson have no real parts , but we fear you may be bored silly by foster's pedantic and excessively earnest performance if we do not have someone else in the movie even if they are an after thought . as you watch scene after scene of nell speaking in tongues , you will eventually either fall asleep or begin to actually understand the language since it is a sort of pig latin . we recommend sleep , but you can choose . if you watch foster's eyes , you will see that she appears to either be on some mind altering drug or is herself falling asleep . this may confuse you . we suspect that after 15 minutes of this course you will have made up your mind but will be worried that you are being too hasty in your judgment . well , there are those of you who may be tempted to stay through the entire course although it runs a tediously long 1 : 53 . you may think that the course has to get more interesting as it evolves . be under no such illusion . the tone of the show is major serious . listen up and don't worry that we will break the soporific mood by any levity . the movie is rated pg-13 because we let foster skinny dip totally nude by the moonlight on most nights . don't worry , there are serious reasons for doing this . you will asked about this on the final . unless this is absolutely a required course for you , we recommend that you do not take this as an elective . we give it one * in our rating since foster tries so hard to get another academy award . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . reviewed written on : january 1 , 1995 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
they have a romance full of sight gags like the cliched love making scene in a much too small car ( mg i think ) . right . the movie starts slow but has two or three good laughs . after that it is downhill all the way . keaton and davis are both uneven actors . here thanks to some awful direction by ron underwood and a miserable script ( speechless is a perfect title given the quality of the script ) by writer robert king , keaton and davis play unbelievable and worse , boring characters . it was like they were on prozac in some of the scenes . screenwriting 101 teaches that romantic comedies should either be romantic or funny and preferably both . this movie was neither . the worse part of the movie was the ending . having given up on romance or comedy , at least you could hope for a little mystery . finally , being a political junkie , i figured i would at least like the show for the political aspects . well , there was no contract with america to argue over here . these candidates had no apparent belief in anything and , moreover , did not even claim to believe in anything . for my 2 or 3 laughs , i generously award speechless a single * . please avoid this show and don't rent it . it is rated pg-13 for reasons that escape me . all that having been said , they could rate it nc-95 for all i care . the movie runs a tediously long 1 : 39 . good time for catching up on your sleep . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
interview with the vampire is the screen version of anne rice's extremely popular book by the same name . since she wrote the screenplay , i would assume the movie is close to the book which i have never read . so what is it like being a vampire you ask ? well , you get to drink gallons and gallons of blood . i can handle that so long as there is something else that makes me want to watch the screen other than the drinking of blood . i got bored silly and totally disgusted . i am not easily turned off ; pulp fiction is one of my favorite movies this year . interview with the vampire was way off of any scale i can imagine . this movie is the grossest one i have ever seen in my entire life . the colors in the movie all have a warm glow to them . the movie runs a painfully long 2 : 00 . it is incorrectly rated r--this is clearly an nc-17 show full of extremely violent images . it could give anyone nightmares for a week . i recommend this show to no one and award it * only for the previously mentioned technical merit . were it not so well crafted , i would have given this despicable show no stars at all . i hated this show and found it painful in the extreme to point my eyes to the screen . you could not pay me to sit through it again . yes , i have many friends that i respect who loved it , but i honestly do not understand why . at any rate , my pain is over since i do not have to watch any more of it . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
the set up of the plot is fascinating . it is cast with great people , and it had terrific trailers . this is a single joke movie . we have an increasing larger and very realistically pregnant schwarzenegger as a caricature of a pregnant woman . he gets to utter every cliche possible . it works okay for the first 5 minutes and then you start checking your watch . i don't blame arnold - an actor i absolutely love . it is the scriptwriter's and the director's fault , not arnold's . devito plays devito . in junior he is not believable or funny as an obstetrician . the sad part is that emma thompson , whom i think is brilliant , is totally wasted in this movie . it is frequently embarrassing watching her . she has no dialog worth remembering . gosh , i sure had some belly laughs over that original material . on the good side , you get to see a lot of scenes of berkeley's life sciences building plus beautiful images of living in the best parts of san francisco . i give the show a single * and do not recommend it . it is correctly rated pg-13 for adult themes . it runs a very long 1 : 50 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
let me warn everyone up front that this is a correctly rated nc-17 show that has wall-to-wall sex . the meantime between sex in this show is maybe three minutes . at the end of the review i want to discuss the demographics of the audience when i saw it . you can stop for a second and speculate now if you like before reading further . the director of this segment is lizzie borden . i think it is a * * * movie as it portrays a tragically sad but realistic view behind the scenes of a world few will ever see . in erotique , borden does the only good directing job , but her segment is still pretty boring in parts . the script ( lizzie borden and susie bright ) has some funny dialog , but mainly is lacking any real development . it is written and directed very poorly by monika treut . other than a funny bus scene there is little to recommend it . most of the action takes place in an expensive , but spartan apartment with almost no furniture . the script by eddie ling-ching fong is minimalist . the acting is pretty amateur . kamala lopez-dawson was the only really polished actor . for a movie about eroticism , i was surprised to find only the love making performance by hayley man to have any real passion . now for the demographics of the audience . i saw the show at a local art house that i go to a lot . i have never noticed any particular groups in attendance . erotique runs a little too long at 1 : 30 . there is tons of very graphic heterosexual and homosexual sex plus much discussion of all the possible words to use to describe sex . this is heavy nc-17 material and not appropriate for teenagers period . although i found several scenes i liked quite well , the rest of the movie was a vast wasteland to paraphrase newton minnow . i award the film * for the few good scenes , but do not recommend it . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
this movie features lots of gigantic explosions . if you are from boston , you will love the many nice scenes shot on location there . other than as a guide to pyrotechnics or as a travelogue , the only compelling reason to see the show is tommy lee jones . he tries his darndest to shine in a bad movie , and although it is one of the weakest acting jobs i have seen from him , he is still interesting to watch . jeff bridges is an actor who can be pretty pathetic sometimes . this was one of them . lloyd bridges's character was not much , and he did not do much with it . the plot had few twists and could have been written as the term project by anyone taking screen writing 101 at their local community college . the script ( joe bateer , john rice and m . jay roach ) features l-o-n-g slow parts followed by tedious action sequences . the director ( stephen hopkins ) has the actors mumble most of the dialog . jeff bridges is especially good at this . this means that you will not have to bother hearing a fair amount of what they say . this is aided by having the sound editor make the background noise frequently much louder than the actor's speech . listen to them pouring the wine at the restaurant ; it sounds like they are filling a bathtub . given the gibberish of the script you can look upon this as a real blessing of course . the movie gets a well deserved r rating and lasts for a tediously long 2 : 00 . for the brilliance of casting tommy lee jones , i award it * and recommend you neither see nor rent this movie . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
no escape is a non-stop action flick in the steven seagal genre . you get to witness lots and lots of people dying many different horrible deaths in front of your very eyes . especially popular are impalements , but decapitations are also quite the rage . actually , i like some of these extreme action movies , but only if there is a fast paced story behind it all as in die hard or under siege and only if you can care about the people . no escape had neither of these attributes . can you imagine a hollywood movie where a big business was not evil ? oh well , i digress . the jokes manage rarely to be funny however . the script by michael gaylin , joel gross , and richard herley was full of nonsense laced with failed attempts at humor . the major failing of the movie is that of the director , martin campbell , and the script writers . they have made characters that you do not care if they live or die . maybe if they had edited it down to 30 minutes , it would have worked as a " twilight zone " episode , but 1 hour and 58 minutes was way too long . the sets here were cute if a bit ridiculous . prisons in 2022 it turns out will look a lot like 13th century china complete with costumes for warriors of that era . my biggest disappointment was with ray liotta . he played one of the scariest ex-cons ever in jonathan demme's something wild and has been excellent in many other shows since , e . , goodfellas and unlawful entry . in this movie , he is , well , boring . his performance was that of robocop but without robocop's humor . don't waste your money . i give it * since it was not a bad show just a monotonous one . it is rated r for all of the above mentioned gory violence . it is probably okay for older teenagers if they feel like they have to see it . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . reviewed written on : april 29 , 1994 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
okay , you are a producer . you still have money left , so you get yourself some stars . you get joanna whalley-kilmer , who must have the most beautiful face of any actress alive , from scandal , peter gallagher , who excels at playing hunks with little upstairs , from sex , lies , and videotape , and jamie lee curtis , who always looks good except in this movie , from a zillion flicks . darn , you are now just about broke . oh well , anyone can direct a show with these stars and a cinematographer who could teach something to monet about lighting effects . you start the shooting . ops , you forgot to get a scriptwriter . you read what he has written . it is pretty boring , but you do not worry because the picture will be beautiful , and you have these gorgeous stars too . on second thought , you better ask for a rewrite . tell him to put something really scary in it . he figures that hurting small children is a classic scare tactic so why not hurt three of them and maybe even kill a few or maybe not . at any rate , that'll sure make the audience take note if it doesn't gross 'em out . again , you start to shoot but realize that you have forgotten to cast the roles of the three children . the studio takes one look at your results and puts it on the shelf for a year , see copyright date in the credits , figuring they have a genuine turkey on their hands . oh well , maybe one of the stars will get arrested or die or something to get some publicity , but no such luck . it would probably be acceptable for teenagers . see this movie if you want to study cinematography or sets or to stare at whalley-kilmer's face ; otherwise , skip it and see just about anything else . for the above three items , i generously award it a single * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
when you read the title search and destroy , you immediately thought it was another vehicle for either jean claude van damme or charles bronson to show off their ability to slaughter hordes of bad guys . right ? this is a musical starring christopher walken as a song and dance man . okay , so i lied , but only partially . this movie does feature a song and dance routine by christopher walken , and although it is a black comedy with a plot , the plot's meaning is so obscure that characterizing the show as a musical for its single musical number , is as good a characterization as any . his secrets include don't apologize since what apologize for is what you really want . another is that just because you do something that doesn't mean it's interesting . dr . waxling's speaking into the camera is such a parody that it is clearly the best part of the movie . too bad the scene only lasts a minute or two . this is not easy since mirkhein , like martin strong , practices sexual abstinence to show his strength of character . first time director david salle seems to think he is going to be the next fellini . salle populates his movie with tons of quirky characters like fellini . salle's , however , are about as believable and interesting as cardboard figures . the audience in the art house i went to set through the entire movie in stunned silence . we all stared at the screen in amazement . what was this all about we seemed to all be thinking . the script by michael almereyda , based on a play by howard korder , has the sole virtue of being extremely bizarre . the writing and the directing had all of the actors acting like free agents from different movies who all happened to be captured by the camera together . there was no chemistry or believability among them . i developed sort of a morbid fascination of where the show was going and how it would end . by the way , it goes nowhere and the ending is the worst part - gratuitous violence . i am a fan of every one of the actors mentioned above . i even like dunne and arquette who have been in one bad movie after another . i felt sad seeing all the actors in this show . i kept thinking of all of the times i had enjoyed their work . i absolutely loved ethan hawke , for example , in the recent before sunrise - which is a show you must see if you have not done so already , but here he was given a worthless part with pathetic dialog . what a waste ! it is correctly rated r for profanity , unnecessary violence , nudity , and cocaine use . this is an adult show . for a couple of a scenes that worked , for risk taking , for ambitious albeit failed directing , and for a certain strange compelling fascination , i generously award it * . i do not recommend you spend your hard earned money on it . i should say that it is so outlandish some people will undoubtedly be charmed by and fall in love with this show . they can have it . i want none of it . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . reviewed written on : may 15 , 1995 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
burnt by the sun is a russian film and was the winner of the 1995 academy award for best foreign film . the plot from there made little sense so i will not attempt to outline the story more . if you like russian style humor or if you monty python style british humor , you will probably go gaga over this show . i was at a fairly full movie house where most of the audience set in stone silence as if they didn't get it . a few people however were in non-stop laughter mode . for this show you either love or you hate it . there is no in-between . as you can guess by the rating , i am in the i-don't-get-it category . let me note the two highlights of the show . first , the cinematographer ( vilen kaluta ) manages to make an oppressive dictatorship have a radiant feel that makes you think old joe stalin's country would have been a pretty peaceful place to live . picture perfect . notice how the camera hugs them in the close ups and how the shots are carefully done with a twilight glow . the second highlight of the movie was in the attractive and visually interesting actors cast to play the lead father , mother , and young girl . i found the script by roustam ibraguimbekov and nikita mikhalkov to be a mess . certainly there were the odd , good one liners . mainly though the scriptwriters and the director ( nikita mikhalkov ) relied on broad humor and sight gags of the monty python style . we also had many fat people who were supposed to be funny solely because of their girth . in one scene , a fat woman blocks mitya's view and that in and of itself is supposedly humorous . we have a summer santa figure in a long ugly beard , long hair , and bad clothes , that was supposed to make us laugh . many of the characters had exaggerated gestures in failed attempts at humor . i generally don't like slapstick comedy , and this movie was no exception . i have now seen all of the 1995 academy award for best foreign films . i enjoyed burnt by the sun least of all . although i liked parts of all of the others , eat drink man woman was the only consistently excellent one of the bunch . see my reviews of all of them for more details . it is in russian with english subtitles . it is unrated , but would be pg or perhaps pg-13 for very brief nudity and a little violence . it is a harmless show . i do not recommend it unless you are into sight gags , exaggerated characters , or a fan of russian humor . for the beauty of the filming and for no other reason , i award it * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . reviewed written on : june 5 , 1995 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
well , the whales are as gorgeous and as inspiring as ever so no change there . lets play guess the plot . do you think willy might get in danger ? do you think he might get trapped again ? did you get those right ? if not , i'll give you the easiest ones of all . capitalism in the form of an oil tanker , can't get more cliched that than , represents evil and environmentalism represents salvation . are you old enough to remember movies where worship meant god and not the environment ? god , of course , is illegal subject matter in public schools , but environmental dogmas are not only legal but almost obligatory . this movie , therefore , only follows a safe trend , it is not responsible for setting it . free willy 2 : the adventure home does have a lot going for it , but after you get tired of watching whales swim and frolic , you realize that you have just seen all of the good parts . i recommend the discovery channel instead of this movie . the original free willy already said it all and much better . this picture added nothing although i will confess i only gave the original free willy a mild thumbs up . the writers ( karen janszen , corey blechman , and john mattson ) should have all been fired by the producers ( lauren shuler-donner and jennie lew tugend ) and the movie not launched until they had a script that had something fresh to say . i am sure they were moving at breakneck speed so that they could get out a sequel and cash in on the popularity of the original movie . the quality of the script was secondary to meeting the prime market window with their follow on product . adults may fall asleep before the first excruciatingly long hour has lapsed . go for major coffee before entering the theater ; you do not want to fall asleep in your son's lap . the movie is rated pg for animal endangerment . it has a single human to human kiss and that is actually the best and most natural scene in the show . jeffrey , age 6 , has been waiting and waiting for this sequel , and he gave it a thumbs up . if you son or daughter insists on going , i recommend trying to con your spouse into going in your place . avoid this snoozer if you can . i do award it a single star but solely for the orca footage . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
i am sorry to report that tim burton has decided to make a third batman movie , batman forever . this is the first one that he did not direct although he did produce it . for director he tapped joel schumacher , whose only halfway decent film was the client . this time we have chris o'donnell playing dick grayson - robin . the plot , you ask ? why do you ask ? if you have seen one batman , you have seen them all . i will not cover the plot as its existence is irrelevant . one sees batman to sneer at the villains and watch all of the gadgetry and stunts . almost every scene requires the suspension of disbelief in order to watch it . the script is full of one liners that end in " ha ha ha " just to make sure that you know it is supposed to be a joke . moreover , the director has the actors get all wild eyed to make absolutely sure you know it is a joke . perhaps , batman has always been this way , but the style has outlined ability to charm or interest an audience . the audience in the theater i was at had about as much interest in the movie as val kilmer did , which is almost none . he sleepwalked through most of the movie . even at that , his performance was much better than kidman's who was unable to demonstrate she could act at all , and based on her previous movies , i would say the jury is still out on that question anyway . the sets by barbara ling and the cinematography by stephen goldblatt were in the usual dark and foreboding batman style . granted they were not as sinister as in batman or batman returns , nevertheless , they were pretty depressing . i understand that robin williams was offered the role of the riddler , but tim burton got frustrated when williams would not make up his mind if he wanted to take the part or not and gave it to carrey instead out of frustration . frankly , i think williams's style of humor would have enlivened the show some , and i am sorry he did not agree to do the part . batman forever seemed liked it ran forever . the editing by dennis virkler was fast paced , but had too much material at 2 : 00 . i was bored from the beginning . it is correctly rated pg-13 for comic violence and sexual references . i would not let kids under 13 see it , but there were a fair number of 8 year olds and above in the audience when i saw it . i do not recommend the movie , and i award it a single star solely for the gadgets . i hope tim burton realizes that the batman formula is tired , and it is time to bury it . i do hope that next year we do not have batman ad nauseam as yet another blockbuster attempt . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
operation dumbo drop is " 5 tons of disney fun , " at least according to the ads . it is a doubly strange movie " inspired by a true story . " first , the tale itself is quite bizarre involving procuring an elephant during a war and moving it by all possible means including by parachute . second , it is strange for anyone , but especially for disney , to turn a vietnam war story into kids fare . i would have never thought of a movie containing vcs lobbing mortars at an innocent elephant as being a movie suitable for kids . nevertheless , the trailers got my son excited to see it , and i am willing to try anything except slasher movies so off we went . there is one point in the movie where they say to each other , " you guys look like mchale's navy " . it was at that point the central problem of the movie was clear . this was " mchale's navy , " but without humor . although there were crazy situations in the movie , most of the humor fell flat with only the glover and liotta smiling to remind you that it was supposed to be funny . all of this made for a slow , tedious , and almost serious , movie that was a putative comedy . all of the actors seemed to be on autopilot and were there only to collect their fees . the violence was handled gingerly . operation dumbo drop runs 1 : 48 which is too long and too slow . it is incorrectly rated pg . given the realistic bombs and bullets flying everywhere , it should have been pg-13 . be careful if your child is sensitive to violence . i do not recommend this show to you mainly because it is so boring . i award it a single star for a great visual when the elephant makes his drop from the sky . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
the problem is that people don't care . " if you really don't like it over there , you can come home . " it is quite discombobulating . the rest of the show is a series of adventures that will scare young children and bore most older ones . for a dissenting view , catch jeffrey's opinion at the end . we have people being shot with the resulting bloody wounds , animals caught in vicious traps pulling so hard you think their legs will tear off , people falling off high cliffs , people appearing to drown , etc . the movie is simply one long chase scene filled with dangers . at least it does have the predictably happy ending . the acting by slater is pedestrian and that by lang down right awful . fei demonstrates no acting ability , but ding gives the one compelling performance of the movie . she would be worth seeing again . finally , the two bad guys look and act exactly like the idiotic squat and baboo from " the power rangers . " i think i can handle it . " the star of the show and the only reason to see the movie at all are the pandas . i was once lucky enough to hold a koala in australia , and watching ryan hold a young panda , ryan made me wish i was him . the show does have one sweet scene not involving the pandas . ryan tries to get over the embarrassment by reassuring ling that " i've seen naked ladies before . i have cable tv . " the directing was by christopher cain whose last movie was the next karade kid . cain has no visible talent . given the intrinsic beauty of china , i thought the cinematography ( jack green ) was surprisingly straightforward . there is one good thing about the amazing panda adventure other than the pandas - it starts with a fun cartoon geared to the adults in the audience . the cartoon is entitled cartoonblanca and is a direct takeoff on casablanca . this one , of course , has a happy ending since it is a cartoon after all . the amazing panda adventure runs too long at 1 : 30 . it is rated pg for many violent scenes that will frighten kids under 5 or 6 . if you like pandas , turn on the discovery channel instead of seeing this movie . my incredibly agreeable son jeffrey , age 6 1/2 , gives the movie the movie a thumbs up and a thumbs sideways . i give the show * for the one sweet scene involving people and all of the panda shots . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . reviewed written on : october 1 , 1995 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
these cops form a quasi-vigilante force to keep the town clean , and they answer only to the commissioner so that they can do whatever they want like kill and beat up the bad guys without having to bother with any messy paperwork . from the first snappy dialog by peter dexter , you know this movie is in major trouble . the cliched music ( dave gruso ) of loud , thumping , staccato piano notes is a another clue that it is not going to be a pleasant time at the picture show . they all wear large hats in the car and in most other scenes as well . since these four musketeers are all extremely large men with broad shoulders , they fill the car almost to overflowing . every scene with them driving around in the car is a lot of fun albeit totally ridiculous ; they look like a bunch of cartoon characters . the movie can be humorous at times and the small talk they make among themselves about how they always sit in the same spots is cute . oh , i forgot to warn you . you are required to check your brain at the theater entrance . there are so many parts of the story that either make no sense , are ridiculous , or are telegraphed in advance like neon signs that you will go crazy if you try to think about what you are seeing . for example , have you ever tried talking in a normal voice from the front seat to the back without turning around . not too hard , you say . does wind noise allow you to hear anything ? ever worn a hat in the back seat of a convertible for long distances at high speeds ? did the hat blow a little bit ? in this movie , we have no wind , no noise , and all hats stay nicely in place without any movement whatsoever . since it is the 50s , you probably have already guessed that our government is up to some sinister plot . general timms propounds such sentiments as " a hundred die so that a thousand may live . " in a truly awful performance , melanie griffith plays max's wife catherine who gets drawn into the link as well . griffith looks terrible in the movie . so sad , she could once light up the screen , see , for example , working girl . now on to some of the larger preposterous parts of the film . lets say it is the 50s and every one is scared to death of the a-bomb . if so , do you want to pick up and put in your pocket what clearly appears to be radioactive material ? i could go on and on with these . for the worse acting award in this movie , griffith actually loses although she does come in third place . his acting grates on your nerves it is so pathetic . his last scene in the picture comes way too late . nolte vacillates between a withdrawn and sad look and an angry and violent one . he is an uneven actor that needs a good director with a strong hand to keep him under control . the weakest part of the team of this movie was the director , lee tamahori . he had a talented cast that was horribly misdirected . the are some good parts to the movie other than the funny car scenes . when our heroes stare down into a gigantic hole carved out by an atomic bomb , it is funny . there is other good acting as well . chazz palminteri is given the best part and does a good job with it . john malkovich is given a terrible role that is poorly written and yet manages to make it interesting to watch nevertheless . that he could do anything with it is a minor miracle . mulholland falls runs 1 : 40 , and it drags a lot . it is rated r for major amounts of totally gratuitous blood and gore - from horribly disfigured bodies with radiation poisoning to faces and guts blown about . there is also some sex and nudity . i would only let quite mature teenagers see the film , but i do not recommend this show to anyone . for some of the laughs and for a few good performances in an otherwise awful movie , i give the film a single * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : november 1 , 1995 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
amazingly , no one dies in the movie . well , zillions of people are shot and forever stop talking , but death involves pain on the part of the victim and a feeling of emotion by the killer or at least by the bystanders so whatever it was , it could not have been death . perhaps , wild bill is famous writer and director walter hill's homage to the grade b westerns that i saw as a kid . on the other hand , the pretentious cinematography ( lloyd ahern ) and music ( van dyke parks ) of this picture is full of great portents leaving little doubt that the movie has some significant meaning . what , i still have no idea . throughout the show , many people are killed for touching his hat . his motto seems to be : if it moves , shoot it . the first act of the show is a live version of the mayhem of a hieronymus bosch triptych . check your brains at the door because bill can annihilate up to six people at once even if they all have their guns at the ready . you don't want to attempt to analyze the likelihood of any of the scenes . we even have them making love to a loud rendition of the battle hymn of the republic on a player piano . but , we are told that " a man of action , bill found romance perplexing . " hurt's acting is mediocre , but his rich narration adds a lot of atmosphere . the script is the biggest problem with the show . wild bill is not gandhi , and walter hill should have lighted up some . a little humor would have helped . the characters are interesting as caricature , but not as real people . there is no one in the show that the audience cares whether they live or die . jeff bridges , a notorious overactor , is restrained , interesting , but unreal in wild bill . diane lane is abysmal as mccall's mother susannah , and david arquette gives a lifeless version of mccall . there actually is more good to the show than the narration . the cinematography is imaginative although sometimes too pedantic and certainly too repetitive . the rust colored exteriors and the scary nighttime interiors are good in conveying the image of importance to the show . the scene transitions are done with white like the white flash of a gun . at first , this worked quite well , but after a while the images are shown on shifting diagonals , and the overexposure increases until the images are almost invisible . if you need to go to the restroom , do it during this scene and take your time . perhaps you want to visit the snackbar as well and get a popcorn refill . you will miss nothing , and the scene will still be going when you return . wild bill runs too long at 1 : 38 , but for some reason the movie is intriguing , and i never wanted to leave . we saw it on opening night at a totally empty theater so it does not seem destined to be a blockbuster . it is rated r for massive killings , general violence , and sex , but no real nudity . i do not recommend the show to anyone , but it would be okay for most teenagers since the violence is more cartoonish than gory . i award the movie a single * for no reason other than it kept my attention , and i did not totally hate it . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : december 1 , 1995 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
are you thinking about getting a camcorder ? do you already own a camcorder ? if you answered yes to either of these questions , then you must see deception . you will pay for the price of the admission many times over in just a single year by avoiding wasting tons of video tape . the cinematography ( laszlo kovacs ) in deception contains in just over an hour and a half all possible bad camera techniques . by the sixth time you watch the underbelly of a jet roaring overhead or a close-up of silverware shaking in the sink as a jet flies by , you will be busy taking mental notes of what to avoid . you also get lots and lots of pans - many of them blurry to keep your viewers curiosity going . you will find how you can make your audience laugh during serious shots like the climbing a gigantic pyramid at dawn by using silly camera angles . oh yes , the movie itself ? it is a mess . you say you want to know the plot . well , this much i will tell you . if you like andie macdowell like i do , then you do get to see her in almost every scene . if you like the costar , liam neeson , forget it , he hardly ever appears . deception's silly plot is unimportant to you , of course , since you are seeing this film in order to save on tape purchases . truth be told , the plot is so crazy and so full of holes that it keeps your attention in a strange sort of way . it is so bad , it is fascinating . it is rated pg-13 for some violence and bad language , but on the whole it is a pretty tame show . i give it a very generous * for somehow keeping my attention by being so ridiculous i kept wondering what would happen next . non-camcorder owners should avoid this show . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : december 13 , 1993 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
the crossing guard is a movie written , directed , and co-produced by sean penn . penn has done this all once before in a movie call the indian runner ( 1991 ) which i have never seen . i hope it is not as flawed as this mess of a movie . hence , the bad guy is the good and vice versa . in short , it doesn't work . whether freddy does or not kill him , you will find you do not care in the least since none of the characters are believable . jack nicholson is a brilliant actor that is wasted in this movie . penn has nicholson in the whispering mode with many of his lines . what effect this is supposed to create i could never figure out . the dialog is so bad it almost gets funny . i don't want to wake my parents . " can you define it ? " the movie is full of strong imagery . john's ridiculous image was enhanced by his wearing dark glasses in a darken trailer . the show is so full of angst , it is like a class film project in directing 101 . the cinematography by vilmos zsigmond is quite pedantic . we have superfluous slow motion shots to call our attention to obvious points . finally we have lots of night scenes filmed in a medium shade of black . the crossing guard runs on and on at 1 : 57 , and i was foolish enough to have seen every minute of it . for some reason i was curious as to the ending . don't be ; it isn't worth it . the film is rated r for lots of sleazy nudity , alcoholism , some violence , bad language , and sex . i would just as soon everybody stayed away from it , but it would be acceptable for mature teenagers if they really wanted to see it . i give the movie a big thumbs down and award it a single star for at least trying hard . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : december 27 , 1995 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
first , let me confess that i am a big shakespeare fan . i have loved most of the movies based on his plays , and franco zeffirelli's romeo and juliet and kenneth branagh's henry v are among my favorites of all the movies of any type that i've ever seen . sad to say , that othello proves that , with the poor direction , even shakespeare can be made boring . when i kept seeing the trailers for the movie , i wondered why there was little dialog shown . i now know why . first time director oliver parker has the actors read their lines slowly , softly , and without a hint of emotion . shakespeare on prozac . there is little to offend in the movie , but neither is there much to engage the audience . i will not cover the story here other than to say that the cast consists of laurence fishburne as othello , irene jacob as desdemona , kenneth branagh as iago , nathaniel parker as cassio , and michael maloney as roderigo . most of you probably already know the story . the surprise for me was the acting by laurence fishburne . i think he is awesome and have admired his work , especially what's love got to do with it and searching for bobby fischer . i am convinced that , with proper direction , he could have given a compelling and original rendition of othello . only kenneth branagh attempts to breath a little life into his character , but in the end he gives the worse performance of his career . his soliloquies to the audience are vapid . the director decided to have his actors attempt heavy italian accents . the thick accents coupled with the low delivery and the shakespearean language means it is very hard to follow the film . take along a cliff's notes with you if you go so you can keep up with it . on the other hand , the lack of energy parker gives the movie may put you to sleep before you get around to opening the pamphlet . at one point , iago says , " pleasure and action make the hours seem short " . and vice versa i thought to myself . there are many small things wrong with the movie . most of the costumes ( caroline harris ) are standard issue from the shakespeare part of the costume department , but the armor that othello wears in the beginning seems not to fit fishburne and overall just looks silly . the only thing done right in the movie is the cinematography ( david johnson ) . it is full of warm and realistic candlelit rooms . granted it is nothing unusual , but it is pleasant to watch . it is rated r for brief nudity and a little sex . a pg-13 rating might have been more appropriate . the scenes getting it the r rating added little and without them , the movie could have been pg . this movie would be fine for anyone over ten , but i can not see why people would want to waste their time at it . if you must see othello , then rent the franco zeffirelli directed film version of the opera with placido domingo staring in it . if you hate opera , then rent one of the other fine film adaptations of shakespeare's plays . i give this film one star because although it was boring , it was not painful . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : january 10 , 1996 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
dunston checks in is a kids movie that tells the story of an animal various called in the movie either an ape or a monkey . this is one of several parts of the movie that is mean spirited and inappropriate for its intended audience , but , to be fair , most of the film is harmless . most of the jokes in the movie are slapstick , and few are funny . these provide a nice diversion from an otherwise dismal film . dunston is a lovable and quite serious ape with big eyes . seeing him dressed in one crazy costume ( eugenie krager ) after another plus his serious and soulful expressions are easily the best parts of the show . why is this in a movie aimed primarily at the 4-10 set ? what is this scene doing in a kid's movie ? why ? the two boy actors in the show are cute but have no script with which to work . the others in the movie are all in the barely acceptable category with the exception of rupert everett whose theoretically funny version of an english aristocrat is so pathetic you will find yourself looking at your shoes when he is on the screen . he asks questions like , " where do you keep your champagne ? and " from the look of my soup i'd say someone in your kitchen has a serious hair loss problem . " these are actually some of the better pieces of drivel the actors have to utter . in the sight gags , we have poor dunston , who is naturally compelling , being forced to do such silliness as drink perfume , put women's underwear on his head , and drink water that is holding false teeth . none of these setups are original or funny . in perhaps the most out of place scene in the show , dunston gives an erotic message to a woman wrapped only in a towel . remember again , the age audience that is going to see this film . a strange performance to say the least . thanks to meandering editing by jon poll , it feels much longer . it is rated pg , but it should be pg-13 for all of the above mentioned inappropriate scenes . most of these should have been cut out anyway in a movie certain to be seen mainly by kids 4-10 no matter what the rating . i do not recommend this show to anyone . to be fair , i should point out that my son jeffrey ( age 6 3/4 ) liked it and gives it his usual thumbs up . at least there was nothing in it to scare him . i give the movie * solely for dunston's potential and his great serious look . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
first , let me confess that i am a big shakespeare fan . i have loved most of the movies based on his plays , and franco zeffirelli's romeo and juliet and kenneth branagh's henry v are among my favorites of all the movies of any type that i've ever seen . sad to say , that othello proves that , with the poor direction , even shakespeare can be made boring . when i kept seeing the trailers for the movie , i wondered why there was little dialog shown . i now know why . first time director oliver parker has the actors read their lines slowly , softly , and without a hint of emotion . shakespeare on prozac . there is little to offend in the movie , but neither is there much to engage the audience . i will not cover the story here other than to say that the cast consists of laurence fishburne as othello , irene jacob as desdemona , kenneth branagh as iago , nathaniel parker as cassio , and michael maloney as roderigo . most of you probably already know the story . the surprise for me was the acting by laurence fishburne . i think he is awesome and have admired his work , especially what's love got to do with it and searching for bobby fischer . i am convinced that , with proper direction , he could have given a compelling and original rendition of othello . only kenneth branagh attempts to breath a little life into his character , but in the end he gives the worse performance of his career . his soliloquies to the audience are vapid . the director decided to have his actors attempt heavy italian accents . the thick accents coupled with the low delivery and the shakespearean language means it is very hard to follow the film . take along a cliff's notes with you if you go so you can keep up with it . on the other hand , the lack of energy parker gives the movie may put you to sleep before you get around to opening the pamphlet . at one point , iago says , " pleasure and action make the hours seem short " . and vice versa i thought to myself . there are many small things wrong with the movie . most of the costumes ( caroline harris ) are standard issue from the shakespeare part of the costume department , but the armor that othello wears in the beginning seems not to fit fishburne and overall just looks silly . the only thing done right in the movie is the cinematography ( david johnson ) . it is full of warm and realistic candlelit rooms . granted it is nothing unusual , but it is pleasant to watch . it is rated r for brief nudity and a little sex . a pg-13 rating might have been more appropriate . the scenes getting it the r rating added little and without them , the movie could have been pg . this movie would be fine for anyone over ten , but i can not see why people would want to waste their time at it . if you must see othello , then rent the franco zeffirelli directed film version of the opera with placido domingo staring in it . if you hate opera , then rent one of the other fine film adaptations of shakespeare's plays . i give this film one star because although it was boring , it was not painful . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : january 10 , 1996 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
if you are of the school of thought that movies like medicine can only be good if they are painful to endure , then do i have a movie for you , twelve monkeys . it is a dark , depressing and ugly science fiction mystery involving time travel and schizophrenia . it is a movie that is about as much fun to watch as getting your teeth pulled , and yet the mystery is so compelling that your mind will not let your feet walk out of the theater early no matter how hard they try . when the movie opens , it is the 21st century . as any hollywood writer will tell you , in the next century we are all going to revert to acting like animals and our technology will be more like the past than the present plus most of the equipment will be covered in grime . screenwriters david and janet peoples's script based on another one by chris marker tells of a future that is full of angry and mean people . it goes on to show a present and past that is equally mean spirited . in this movie the sets for the present and the past are equally sinister and morose . the 21st century scientists use old fashion devices more mechanical than electrical , and their time machine is not very accurate . jeffrey is most certainly nuts , and james begins to think that he is too and that he is making it all up in his mind . since the mystery is the only thing good about this disgusting but innovative show , i will not describe the plot more . suffice it to say that it is convoluted , and there is lots of it . the cinematography ( roger pratt ) is full of dark grays and contrasting bright white lights to create a somber and desolate feel . i found the bleak and lugubrious images of the show infectious . as i left the theater , i felt terrible - hopeless and depressed . director terry gilliam puts a strong stamp on a movie . although i was intrigued by the twelve monkeys story , i was angry at myself for not having the good sense to walk out of it . many times i started to leave since i was not enjoying myself at all and was finding the images painful to endure , but i kept wanting to know the resolution of the mystery , which i must admit is wrapped up nicely . besides the intriguing plot , there is some good acting even if the movie is pretty unbearable . brad pitt proved to me that he is more than just a pretty face . willis , whom i frequently dislike , is quite good , but hard to watch . stowe , whom i always like , is good and is one of the few characters in this movie that you not only like , but actually care about . twelve monkeys runs way too long for my taste at 2 : 09 . it is correctly rated r for gore and violence and a vision of the world that could give you nightmares for a long time . there is male nudity , but no sex . do not let teenagers see this show unless they are quite mature . this is an ugly film that i wish i had never seen , and i certainly would not wish it inflicted on others . i am giving it a single * for some good acting and an intriguing mystery . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
antonia's line ( antonia ) is a film from the netherlands that is one of the nominees for best foreign language picture of 1995 . why they left out the wonderful shanghai triad ( china ) and the promise ( germany ) , i have no idea . soon we find out how whimsical this film will be . this type of craziness can work in a well constructed movie , but the script by marlene gorris is a mess . there are numerous other examples of eccentric behavior . in a scene that will be repeated innumerable times throughout the picture , a man is mean and insensitive to others less powerful than he . as a sex , we learn in this mean spirited film , that we men are brutish at best . antonia is a match for males of any age . the director ( marlene gorris ) wants you to feel no sorrow for the kid even if the show's heroine does put the kid in a scary and life threatening situation . later in the show there is a rape scene that is punished as well , but i will not go into the details of that punishment . there is no story to speak of . the film is more an eclectic collection of incidents in antonia's life . if the film had attempted more balance , perhaps i could have gotten beyond its pedantic messages , but as constructed , i felt like the defendant in a kafka trial , and i kept wanting to cry out , " i'm not guilty ! " on a positive note , the dutch scenery is lovely and the cinematography ( willy stassen ) captures it well . the director , while too oppressive for my taste , did demonstrate a high degree of control and is not afraid to take risks with crazy antics . antonia's line runs 1 : 33 and even less would have been better in my book . the film is not rated but is most certainly an r movie . there is sex , nudity , and violence especially rape scenes . i would not let teenagers go unless they were mature , and i would want to discuss it with them afterwards if they did go . i do not recommend this movie , and i give it a single * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
i think angels and insects is supposed to be a morality tale , but it is so outlandish , it is comes off more as parody . if it were not so slow and somber , one might be tempted to laugh at it . the movie's purpose is to show the strong linkage between humans and insects . in one of the more pedantic editing jobs ( belinda haas ) in recent memory , we have frequent cuts between the horrors of the insect world and that of the human . although there are several memorable insects scenes , perhaps the most dramatic is the immolation scene of the moths in the ubiquitous candles that lit the rooms of that era . a close second is a scene straight out of the birds but with moths instead of birds attaching the helpless female . as soon as the viewer realizes that the film is meant to be out of focus and that he does not need to run and complain to the manager , the film switches to a swirl of upper-class dancers in england and here the colors are rich and the picture is sharp . watch the costumes ( paul brown ) in this and every scene of the show for they are as ridiculous and pedantic as the editing . some gowns are overgrown with fruit favored by insects while others are made to look like insects , e . g . , bold and broad , yellow and black bee stripes . well it turns out that the alabaster's home is a highly dysfunctional one , and we have long since learned from the movies that almost all victorian homes were . since i am sure movies would not lie to us , it is nice to be safely ensconced in the late twentieth century . i guess the servants are not supposed to know the dark secrets of the alabaster household . the shocking ending of this movie is telegraphed about a million times , but i will not reveal it here , although the trailers for the movie do . in one of the better pieces of dialog , the husband says of the mystery , " whom can i tell that i should not destroy in the telling . " this is a show where i developed an admiration for all of the fine details of my watch . at the one hour point , i began to wonder what , if anything , was ever going to happen . as it turns out , in the last quarter of the film the actors and actress come alive as if they had come through a metamorphosis . why director philip haas did not breath live into the show before then astonishes me . there is a genuine , albeit mainly unrealized , potential in this picture . actually , the worst part of the movie is not the plodding direction , it is the stilted script by belinda and philip haas . most of the lines fall like stones and are laden with gibberish . a typical one forces the excellent actress kristin scott thomas to have to say verbatim , " i wish humankind would create such altruistic virtues , but sometimes i think socialism may never be realized . " angels and insects runs too long at 1 : 57 . it is rated r for lots of sex including certain perversions and full male and female frontal nudity , but if you are looking for an erotic show , i think you have the wrong film . i would not let teenagers see the show unless they were mature . although i am glad the characters finally came alive toward the end , i can not recommend angels and insects to anyone , and i give it a single * for a good conclusion to a poor film . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
for reasons that probably have more to do with money than art , hollywood has decided to remake the 1954 french thriller les diaboliques . this time it is a hopelessly muddled mess called simply diabolique , which isn't very simple at all for american audiences i guess since the guy in front of me at the box office at local multiplex said " give me two tickets to that show with the strange name . " in this remake by director jeremiah chechik , he got himself some big box office stars , but skimped on the best part of the original movie which was the elaborate and well constructed script . in this disastrous version , written by don roos , most of the motivational scenes that set up the character's later actions have been excised from the original script and the time filled out with scenes of meaningless fluff . this much you can figure out if you listen carefully . this is all laid out in much more detail in the original so you can understand better what the characters' motivations are . the movie plays like a readers digest version of the original . the script is a travesty and features dialog that is so trite as to be silly . when the script does not have characters uttering inanities , it relies on classic cliches like lots of thunder and lighting to provide the right atmosphere , and it mimics many of the low budget horror shows that are on late night cable . it is so poor it may put you to sleep so i would avoid going to the evening show if you feel you just have to see this remake for some reason . ignoring for a minute the poor direction and the hacked up script , how is the acting you ask ? you never believe for a moment that guy or mia could in love with her or could have a affair with her . i usually like chazz palminteri , although he has been bad in some movies like mulholland falls , but here he is simply miscast . he is never convincing as a sadist . the only characters with any appeal in the film are adjani and bates . parts of adjani's character make the audience care about her , but her performance is frequently wooden . bates is good only for a little comic relief and has several funny lines , but i did not buy her as a detective . the cinematography by peter james is too didactic for my taste . items like ice buckets will crash to the floor and the camera with zoom in tight to overemphasize its importance in the plot . there was one part of the movie i totally loved and that was the overboard , but fun , old fashioned dramatic movie music by randy edelman . hey , if we have to sit through this mess , lets at least have something exhilarating to which to listen . diabolique runs a long 1 : 48 which is amazing since so many key developmental scenes were either deleted by editor carol littleton or more likely judged not important for american audiences and so were never in the script in the first place . the film is correctly rated r and has bad language , sex , full frontal nudity , gratuitous violence copied straight from low grade horror flicks , and heavy smoking . i suppose it will be okay for most teenagers , but i hope they do not bother with this one and rent the much better original instead . even with subtitles , the original is a much easier film to follow . i give thumbs way down to diabolique and award it a single * . finally , to be fair , i should point out my wife liked it , flaws and all . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
let me first confess that i absolutely loved alien ( 1979 ) and aliens ( 1986 ) . i was extremely disappointed by alien 3 . in alien , the shock of the concept as well as the acting carried the picture . in aliens the fear of the beast was tempered by the sweetness of the little newt character . this is a dark and mean spirited show . this one reeks with despair and hopelessness . as always , sigourney weaver is back as the ever resourceful ripley . other than lance henriksen as bishop ii , i think most of the rest of the cast is new to the alien series . the cast is acceptable , but none of them are very impressive . the problem in the movie boils to two words , script and direction . both are pathetic . what didn't i like about it ? mostly it is boring . it is a one act and one scene play that has a short and mildly interesting prologue . the prologue is maybe 10-15 minutes long . i did not time it because i thought the rest of the movie would have lots of scenes and be much more interesting . in fact the rest of the movie is a lugubrious and unsuspenseful 2 person show , weaver and the monster . remember what wonderful and essential other characters there were in the other movies ? well , there are a few other potentially interesting actors in alien 3 , but they are never developed and have almost nothing essential to do other than keep it from being a 2 person play . remember the suspense , fear , and intensity of alien and aliens ? good , hold that memory while watching this show . memories are good ; this show isn't . better see it while it is still on the big screen . the murky cinematography by alex thomson is so dark it may be invisible on the little boob tube at home . you say , well there must be something you liked in it ? well , yes there is a tiny mystery in the way that the monster acts toward weaver . this mystery is easily solved yet i found the premise kind of cute . i wish editor terry rawlings had hacked away more of this depressing film . it is correctly rated r for violence and bad language . it would be okay for most teenagers . i give it a thumbs down recommendation and a single * . if you are a real alien series fan , i do not think you will be able to miss seeing it . even with terrible reviews i had to see this movie . i remain hopeful that alien 4 will be more like the best in the series which was aliens . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : may 27 , 1992 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
there are two premises to the film . the other , amazingly enough , is just the opposite , and the film depicts almost all of the dogs as representing a vast criminal underclass of society . i found these two notions as incongruous and baffling . the bigger problem with the movie however is that there is only one sympathetic character in it , the little human girl anne-marie ( judith barsi who was great as ducky in the land before time ) , and the dogs are universally unlovable ! none of the dogs are characters that the audience cares about . burt reynolds provides one of the most bland readings , and i do mean reading , of a script in a long time . judith barsi provides a great voice for anne-marie , and the only reason to view this show about dogs is to see this wonderfully sweet and innocent human girl , which , of course , makes no sense at all . in fact , the whole anne-marie character is adorable , which leads me to the most distasteful aspect of the picture . maybe i am being way too sensitive , but i kept seeing carface as being created as too close to a pedophile . oh well , this was not the main reason i did not like the show . the main reason was that it is boring and holds no interest whatsoever , other than the character of the only human lead , anne-marie . the weak script by david weiss , et . al . , has very few memorable lines , and charlie gets most of them . his lame attempts at humor include , " some of the poorest people i know are as broke as the ten commandments . " other than the anne-maria character , the only other part with any merit are the drawings . they are a cornucopia of oversaturated colors . the songs written by t . j . kuenster and charles strouse are as bland as bland can be , but the singing by charlie is even worse . it is so bad that is hard to call it singing . you are probably more melodious . all dogs go to heaven drags on at 1 : 29 . in fact , if the producer had just gotten a whole new set of dogs , it would have been a much more enjoyable film . the show is rated g , but i wonder if pg would not have been more appropriate in a show where characters get shot at with a machine gun and where one goes on a scary dream journey to the deeps of hell . at any rate , i would be careful with little kids and these scenes . i can not recommend the film although jeffrey ( almost 7 ) seemed to like it , and i give it a single * for judith barsi's anne-marie . i hope the recently released all dogs go to heaven 2 is better since jeffrey wants to see it . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
as readers of my reviews have long since learned , my favorite movie genre is the documentary . even poorly constructed documentaries can provide a fascinating experience and most documentarians are quite skilled . if a documentary actually gets a theatrical release , you can generally be sure that it will be well worth seeing since bad documentaries have trouble finding a distributor . well i am sorry to report that narcissistic director nick broomfield found an outfit called inpictures to distribute heidi fleiss : the hollywood madam . simply put , this is the worst documentary i have ever seen . nick appears on camera almost as often as the putative stars of the film . he kept reminding me of perot , saying , " this is not about me , " but actually the picture seeming to be mainly about him . although ross mcelwee made a movie about making a documentary in one of the best documentaries ever , sherman's march , this is a technique that should be used only by the most skilled documentarians of which nick broomfield is certainly not one . he gives them credit , but it feels like plagiarism . perhaps that is the way the british always do it , but it sounded like an affectation . the film concentrates on two despicable characters in heidi's life . you feel like she might slime her way off of the screen at any moment . the interviews with both of them reveal little insight because of nick's almost total lack of skills as an interviewer . the film feels like someone making a parody of a documentary . it is so muddled , it is like staring at something through a glass of mud . based on what little i did learn , i suspect that even if the glass had been clear , none of the people interviewed were worth hearing from . she provides such enlighten explanation as to how she got started as , " i just realized there were young pretty girls around and a lot of rich men . " well , that certainly explains everything . heidi does prefer older men and we learn , " any guy over 40 looks good to me ! " in a movie populated by boring sleasebags and done by a self-serving documentarian , there is a single good scene . heidi fleiss : the hollywood madam runs 1 : 46 and seems like it will never end . i saw it all but wish i had left early . the film is not rated , but would certainly get an r for bad language , some sex , and some nudity . the show would be fine for most teenagers . i can not recommend it and give it the lowest rating i have ever given to a documentary , a single * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
bottle rocket is a slacker crime comedy . as a very quirky comedy , it starts off well out of the gate . after the movie's fresh start , dignan's loquacious demeanor soon began to wear thin on me . i have a low tolerance for obnoxious people , and dignan is the type that you would run from at a cocktail party . james caan's acting in bottle rocket has to be the worse he has ever done . embarrassingly bad . to be fair , most of the other actors were only acceptable except for one sweet one performance , but i'll get to that later . cavazos manages to rise above the pedestrian material and gives a lovely performance as an almost non-english speaking paraguayan maid who works at the motel . i could not remember where i had seen her until i looked her up . in my opinion , she is the only reason to see bottle rocket , and she is the only character about whom i cared . i was kind of hoping the rest of them , especially dignan would be run over by a truck . the script by wes anderson and owen wilson has all of the makings of a half baked idea . after the humor at the first , they seem devoid of follow-up ideas . this came across more ridiculous than funny . i do not remember any memorable lines from the show . it is rated r for some violence and bad language , and it would be fine for teenagers . i do not recommend this fairly boring show , and i award it a single * solely for a good start and for some delicate acting by lumi cavazos . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : may 8 , 1996 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
let's say you want to make money , i mean make a movie . next you line up a sure fire and likable star , paul hogan from crocodile dundee fame . finally , your piece de resistance is the show will feature an animal so naturally charming that surely riches must yours for the taking . well , it's not that easy . if you get a lame script from an fairly inexperienced screenwriter ( alan shapiro ) , and a similarly inexperienced director ( also alan shapiro ) who is unable to breathe any life into the film , all of your other good ideas will be nullified . this show has such little energy it may put you to sleep . count yourself extremely fortunate if this happens . the film is pure formula from beginning to end . the script attempts both physical and verbal humor and both fall flat . it sounds funnier that it is on the screen . a gross piece of humor is that sandy throws up all over himself , but never gets around to putting on a clean shirt . i am talking caked on vomit a half inch thick which completely covers the front of the shirt . i think it makes underage smoking look cool if you are macho enough not to get sick , which is the wrong message to give to the film's intended audience . the language is silly , but at least it is clean . the script has a few nice lines . uncle porter warns sandy , " you're going to have to use your brain which is going to hurt because it's the weakest muscle in your body . " another is when dirk threatens porter with " i ought to teach you a lesson . " porter retorts , " i'd like that . i have a thirst for knowledge ; teach me . " similarly , to remind the audience how in awe they should be of the dolphins , the cinematographer ( bill butler ) uses lots of orange filters to give the jumping dolphins a mystical look . the acting is pretty awful . instead he delivers a weak rendition of the old paul hogan . think of it as paul hogan with most of his life blood sucked out as if there was a vampire picture being filmed on the next lot . elijah wood's performance is so detached it is like an out-of-body experience . only flipper seems up to his assignment , but he is not given much interesting to do . tossing a soda can from off screen , does not a moving performance make . if they had done something with this romantic angle it might have been a refreshing change of pace , but it is never developed much . it is rated pg and nothing offensive happens . there is no sex , nudity , bad language , and little violence . my easy to please son jeffrey ( age 7 ) gives film a thumbs up , but only for kids 5 and up . i'm glad jeffrey liked the show , but i hated it . i am still amazed that they could take such a likable star as flipper and make such an inanimate movie . a big thumbs down from me and a rating of a single * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
cyclo ( xich lo ) is the second feature length film by director tran anh hung . in certainly a change of pace , cyclo is a depressing , violent , claustrophobic , and confusing tale . i tried hard to like it , but had to give up in futility . i will give it this , it is a gritty film . as the director and co-writer hung says in the press kit , " for me the term refers equally to the driver and his vehicle . " if the film's purpose is to shock us into how bad it is now in vietnam , then at least on that score it succeeds . this is making me nauseous so i am going to stop giving examples . you get the picture by now . as an aside , there are some extremely violence films that i have loved , but here it is so gratuitous and excessive that it turned me off . even absent the gore , the story is a depressing one . the cinematography ( benoit delhomme and laurence tremolet ) is full of tight close-ups in highly confined quarters . it makes you want to go outside and get some fresh air it is so claustrophobic . the script contains little dialog and like the recent iranian film , the white balloon , the lack of dialog is filled with the overpowering sound of traffic noise . what lines there are serve more to confuse than enlighten . finally , the characters were so unsympathetically drawn that you do care about what happens to any of them which makes the massive violence seem all the more excessive . i must admit , i do like the dramatic music by ton-that tiet . i will give the director credit for being willing to experiment . cyclo runs too long at 2 : 00 . it needs much more aggressive editing than nicole dedieu and claude ronzeau give it . the film is in vietnamese with english subtitles . cyclo is not rated , but would be at least an r . i would only let the most mature teenagers see it . i hope tran anh hung returns to films like the scent of green papaya in the future and leaves the ultra violence movies to directors like quentin tarantino who have a better sense of how to handle it . i hated cyclo , but give it * for trying . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
well , as outlandish and ridiculous as the remake is , the original manages to be slightly worse . the original is a somnolent little treatise on the minutia of living near the ocean . careful never to offend anyone and taking absolutely no risks , the show meanders until is finally put to sleep by a benevolent editor ( warren adams ) . director james b . clark's specialty is children's b movies , having directed such unmemorable films as a dog of flanders , island of the blue dolphins , my side of the mountain , and the little ark . here he makes his only well known film , and why it was so successful is beyond this critic . yes , the dolphin star is photogenic , but he gets much less screen time the actors . since there really is no plot , a summary seems superfluous , but let me tell you all you need to know . needless to say , the big storm sounds ferocious but its effects are fairly tame . most scenes are of little consequence . most of the show is dominated by the loud violins whose sole purpose seems to be to anesthetize the audience . perhaps he does , but not in this show . other than flipper , who is cute , the only other aspect of the film with any merit is the cinematography by lamar boren and joseph brun . they produce warm pastel shades that give a surreal and yet nostalgic look to the sets . it is not rated , but would get a g today . there is no sex , nudity , or even mildly offensive language . he actually likes the original better than the remake , which he also likes . i hate them both , but if forced at gunpoint to watch one of them again , i'd go for the remake . at least it takes some risks and has a few imaginative scenes . i give the original just barely one * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
at least this is the movie i went to see . this movie would have been or at least should have been fascinating . forget theory . a review of this botched attempt at telling the early life of the beatles is pretty easy . if it was really this boring why make a movie , and if it wasn't , why is this movie so ? now there are a few , and only a few good aspects of this film . first and foremost , there are about a dozen music segments . ah , that is the good news . the bad news is that most of them seem to last all of about thirty seconds so that the audience is not distracted from the awful movie about sutcliffe . there is also astrid's wonderful smile . i am sure there must have been something else good about the film , but i am unable to recall anything . for the short music clips and for astrid's smile , i generously award the picture a single star . if anybody ever makes a good film about the early days of the beatles , i would love to see it . my recommendation is to pass this one by and look for one of the many beatles documentaries if you want to know more . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
okay , admit it . you hate opera . you've known this fact since childhood and have never wavered in your opinion . you've actually never seen a real opera . flipping the dial and having accidentally seen a few minutes on pbs doesn't count . if this syllogism fits you , then i have just the movie for you . after watching the utterly lifeless madame butterfly , you will confidently be to proclaim that you were right all along . opera is a musical hoax perpetrated by a bunch of rich intellectuals . as mark twain put it about one opera composer , " i am told that his music is better than it sounds . " being a big opera buff , i can testify that opera is one of god's gifts to mankind , but as in all things , there are bad examples . french documentary director frederic mitterand's madame butterfly is devoid of energy and the singing quality is minimal . in the spirit of full disclosure , i should admit that " madame butterfly " is not one of my favorite of puccini's operas , nevertheless , the production of it does not have to be this boring . this is one of the many flaws in the staging . the singers he chose have modest voices with little resonance or interest . huang's voice is quite undeveloped and shallow , and troxell's voice is a little too high pitched and almost seems to squeak . only cowan has a voice that commands attention . the other singers in the cast are unmemorable . ah , the dialog . all operas are full of silly little lines , and this one is no exception . so much sky . look , we've reached the top . so many flowers . " my biggest problem with the movie is the staging . the actors give frozen gestures , and their movements are leaden . if the singing was exceptional , you could probably ignore the staging , but it isn't . the singers in this film have minuscule acting ability so they bring little to their roles to compel the audience's attention . troxell , for example , has exactly two expressions . the only reason to bring an opera to the screen is to open it up , but here most scenes are in or about the house giving the picture a claustrophobic feeling . on an opera stage , you would expect this , but not in a movie . as you probably all know , the story has a tragic ending . here the actors' lack of ability mutes its effect , but the ending does breathe into the show its only semblance of life . i will say this about the film , there are a few classic arias that are pleasant to hear again even if they are not particularly well done . on the good side , the cinematography by philippe welt and the sets by michele abbe-vannier are full of warm browns . the interiors scenes are the best , and the wooden tones radiate with a peaceful glow . exterior shots are less effective , but the ones of the morning haze are particularly lovely . if you do go , make sure you go early or drink lots of coffee . this film is a great cure for insomnia . being a critic , i forced myself to see it all , and since the press screening was in the morning after four cups of coffee , i was wide awake . it is in italian with english subtitles . at the time of the press screening , it was not rated by the mpaa , but it is a g film for every reason except possibly for the theme which might get it a pg . there is no sex , nudity , or bad language . there is a little underdone and unrealistic violence at the end . the film would be fine for any kid old enough to be interested . i can not recommend this tepid attempt at turning an opera into a movie . i give the movie a single * for a few good arias . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
after reading a bunch of bad reviews about feeling minnesota , but hearing that siskel and ebert gave it two thumbs , i went wondering what they liked about it . i've now seen it , and i'm still wondering . feeling minnesota is a would be romantic comedy , but actually is about as tasty as bowl of cold mush on a winter morning . this is a mean spirited show , that will probably make you wish you had never wasted your time . i supposed you could label it surprise sex instead if you prefer , but certainly there is no seduction or even a hint that she likes him before she starts pulling his clothes off . here is an actress who once could charm the bark off the trees . today she looks bloated and lifeless . other than show up , she does nothing for the picture . aykroyd makes a mess of every scene he appears in , but then to be fair , so does everyone else . i kept think about poor minnesota . granted i have only been there twice , but i liked the state . oh well , perhaps there is a producer right now working on a picture that show the state in a better light . speaking of light , the cinematography by walt lloyd is on the dark side of depressing . he uses dull grays and blues to accentuate the saturnine tone of the writing and the directing , both by first time writer and director steven baigleman . well , at least baigleman's next film now can only be better . the saddest part for me was watching talented and attractive cameron diaz give the first bad performance i had seen her give . i loved her in the great low budget film the last supper and thought she was good too in she's the one . here her work is totally unconvincing . she gives an unsympathetic performance that makes you yearn for the real diaz . subtle this script is not . one gory scenes includes an ear being partially cut off and then carried around . from here , you can write the script yourself and probably guess most of it . not that you'd want to bother of course . before closing , i want to share a couple of little " gems " from the script . freddie philosophizes that , " time is like an orange . it's round . it repeats itself . probably want to put that on your wall at work . gosh , what imagery . it is rated r for gory violence , a lot of sex and bad language . it is probably acceptable for mature teenagers . i did not like and do not recommend the picture . the film left me feeling much worse that when i walked in , and there was not a performance worth viewing , but i generously give it a single star for reasons that escape me . perhaps it is self-doubt . how could a movie with stars as talented as diaz and reeves be this awful ? maybe i missed something , but i don't think so . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
well , i survived surviving picasso , but i am not sure why i chose to . i could have walked out after about thirty minutes and gotten the gist of the picture which is that picasso was a boisterous enigma who had numerous parallel affairs with younger women . i left knowing little more than when i arrived . the only bright light in the film is screen newcomer natasha mcelhone as francoise gilot , who was one of picasso's girlfriends and wives . mcelhone has a infectious smile and inner strength , and the camera loves her . i look forward to seeing her in a much better movie . his painting is treated as secondary material , but for me it is the best part . actually , all of the cinematography is done well and the colors are reflective of the bright primary colors in picasso's paintings . don't look for his paintings in the film however since his son would not permit them to be shown in the picture . also , worth noting is the colorful pastel costumes by carol ramsey and the surreal sets by luciana arrighi . they add a bit of fun to an otherwise dull movie . you should know that the minotaur consumes at least two maidens a day . " you've contaminated the whole world . " the script by ruth prawer jhabvala , based on the book by arianna stassinopoulos huffington , paints an unflattering picture of the artist as a vain and sexist man . picasso explains to dora that , " i really like intelligent women . sometimes , of course , i like stupid ones too , " referring to her . the show argues that picasso viewed women as mere objects . the closest he comes is when he declares , " i make a lot of mistakes , but so does god . " there is one bit of interesting picasso trivia i did learn . it seems that he saved every piece of cut hair and every nail clipping of his . it is rated r , but it is a soft r . there is a single brief scene of full female frontal nudity . the language is pretty mild , and there is no sex or violence . the film would be fine for any teenager , but i see no reason anyone would want to sit through this pointless biography of picasso's many affairs so i give it a thumbs down and award it a single * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
( reviewer's note ) i saw the substance of fire at the press screening . locally in the san jose area , i am not sure of where it will be opening , but my guess is that it will be either the amc or the ua theater chain . the substance of fire is a movie that tries hard to be unlikable and succeeds . besides being about as much fun to watch as witnessing your neighbor's squabbles , the movie is on the low end of the believability scale . the film starts extremely well , and since this was an early screening , there were no press kits available and i had no idea what to expect . this is the best and only completely satisfying part of the show , but it lasts a mere two minutes before the picture switches to the present . with a death wish for his family's fortune , issac rejects the novel with the put-down , " you think i'm going to publish some trashy novel by some slicko hipster ? " since the company is currently broke , spending money you don't have will certainly force it into receivership . in an example of the trite and pompous sentiments typical of the script , landscape architect martin asks his students about a field of grass , " what is the one thing that landscape architecture requires ? " does anybody actually finish a book once they have formed an opinion of it ? " sarah makes her living acting in a cliched kid's tv show . there is one classic dilbert style line in the film . " it's a process . no one person can come to a conclusion . " it's not me , i'm just part of this bureaucracy . kafka would have liked the scene . the show is devoid of any characters you care about . director daniel sullivan has his actors thumb their noses at the audience . if the script were more insightful , perhaps its cadence would be tolerable , but as written , it is merely banal and implausible . there is no way this family would have ever been capable of amassing a fortune much less keeping it for more than a month . much of the show is pure hokum . when the script is not insulting , it attempts overwrought sentimentality . the director does not deliver a single subtle moment . the music and the cinematography are sincere and somber , quite fitting for a much stronger film than this piece of nonsense . the substance of fire runs 1 : 47 . it is rated r for some uses of the f word . the show is a mild r and would be fine for any teenager and probably for those a bit younger . there is no reason to see this meaningless show so i do not recommend it . it gets a single * in my book . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : october 8 , 1996 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
some people have the gift , but others are lacking . first time feature film director alan taylor tries his had at a farce with palookaville . perhaps taylor has promise , but palookaville is on the debit side of almost everyone's ledger who has a part in it . well , i've never read the stories , but i hope they are not as shallow as this movie . perhaps with a more deft approach , this scene could have been funny , but david epstein's script lacks much subtlety . russ says they should stick to their original plan since , " i'm not talking about a life of crime , just a momentary shift in lifestyle . " russ is a dreamer . you can have fresh squeezed orange juice every day . if you've got a back yard there , you've got fresh fruit . " actually , there is only one part of the film i like . and vice versa of course . in a better movie , i might have criticized this little romantic subplot as needless , but here i appreciated the diversion from the plodding main plot . i am a fan of mcdormand's , but her performance in palookaville is lifeless . in a film that tries to charm you , but is so dreadfully dull that boredom is the only consist reaction to it , there is one funny little scene . they are studiously taking notes , and this does arouse suspicions in ed . palookaville is mercifully only 1 : 33 long . it is rated r for brief nudity and strong language . the film would be fine for any teenager . i see no reason to waste your time with it so it gets a big thumbs down from me and a measly single * only for bridgit ryan's small part . the press kit says she will be in great expectations with robert de niro , ethan hawke , and gwyneth paltrow so she will get a much better chance than this slight movie . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
what more could the viewing public want ? believability would be nice . absent that , perhaps a mystery that goes somewhere . in a film that has only one even mildly interesting performance and where the other characters are created out of cardboard , it helps if you approach the chamber with as low an expectation as possible to avoid disappointment . having read " the chamber " and all of the other john grisham books , i entered the theater not expecting a lot , but it was considerable worse than i feared . in the hands of director james foley and screenwriters william goldman and chris reese , they manage to take the least of enjoyable author grisham's novels and excise its only strength which is the mystery . although they do leave an outline of the mystery , what is left is like a maze where someone has erased most of the dividing lines . the film plays like it was a four hour movie where all of the key sections have been purged to get it down to size . only the dull parts and the sensation portions have been left intact . the characters don't relate to each other . rather than chemistry between them , what we get is a string of serial monologues masquerading as a script . there are many fine pictures that discuss the subjects in the chamber in a responsible and enlightening manner . foley's vision here is limited to the exploitive . he takes controversial subjects and taunts the audience with racial and religious epithets solely for gratuitous shock value . ever reliable hackman does the only real acting in the show , but even he is not as good as he usually is . directors and writers do make a difference . the south in the chamber is even more stereotyped than most grisham novels . caricature is effective to a point , but the chamber is way over the line . " save me . sure . i will not discuss the ending other than to say it is as manipulative as the rest of the film . ian baker's cinematography is dull and lifeless . for a major motion picture , it is strikingly ugly . the music by carter burwell sounds like it was lifted from an old b movie . i left the theater with many questions . how could they make such a incredible mistake as to cast chris o'donnell as the lawyer ? why was the script such an insult to the viewer's intelligence ? and the biggest question of all , why did i stay , hoping in vain that the film would somehow get better ? the chamber runs forever at 1 : 51 thanks to the sloppy editing of mark warner . it is rated r for some violence and some bad language , and the film would probably be acceptable for teenagers . i hated the show , and i recommend people of all ages avoid it . only out of respect for gene hackman do i award it a single * . my immediate reaction when i left the theater was not even to rate it that high . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
set it off is a warmed over thelma and louise story full of cliched racial stereotypes . takashi bufford and kate lanier's manipulative script tries to make you care for the hard working members from the projects , but it overstates its case so badly that it loses most of its credibility . set it off is a high energy show featuring lots of automatic weapons and flying bullets . the action rarely lags , and you need only wait short intervals before another scene will do something to try to shock you . if you rob a bank , do not have initials carved into your hairdo . cops like hints like that . remember , those little video cameras aren't there for nothing . this is one of many contrived and unbelievable sequences . one woman in the picture , for example , they say clearly doesn't wash any dishes . from there , the film takes fairly standard twists and turns . the part is lifted straight out of the ending sequence of bonnie and cylde . set it off has potential . these women have real problems , but director f . gary gray goes for exploitation so much that the audience is left with only the action to enjoy . i suppose people who like hating cops or one of the ethnic groups in the show might also gain some vicarious pleasure since everyone is shown in a bad light . in a time when the country should be trying to come together , i found this picture to be a celebration of our divisions . sad . set it off runs a full 2 : 00 for no good reason . it is rated r for very graphic violence , bad language , sex , and drug usage . i would just as soon no one saw the picture , but if teenagers go , they should be quite mature . i did not like the film and do not recommend it . i give this mean spirited film a single * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
for those of you who have been waiting for the sequel to that quintessential tearjerker and excellent movie terms of endearment ( 1983 ) , it is finally finished . the script is by the director robert harding , and all his jokes fall like stones . so what is good in the film ? his performance is fairly mechanical , but infinitely better than the rest of the film . the only other positive aspects of the picture worth mentioning are the classic tacky clothes that the costume designer created for aurora . they consist of combinations of purples and pale blues accentuated with silly little frills . i have now exhaustively listed every good part of the film . do not bother looking for any others . there are none . struck oil at the altar . " winning the award for the worse performance in the film is bill paxton as aurora's therapist jerry . poor bill looks as though he suffers from gas through most of the film . i hope he has gotten to feel better . there is a unbelievable romance between jerry and aurora . the romance is little more than a plot device inserted in a failed attempt to shock the audience . you see , aurora is old enough to be jerry's mother . usually interesting juliette lewis plays aurora's granddaughter . i just knew she would be able to make something out of her badly written part , but she wasn't . the show is full of bad taste masquerading as comedy . now , that is an original idea . when a sweet old character dies in the middle of the show , the director peppers the funeral with little sight gags . we can not even bury the dead properly in this show . believe it or not , there is even a airplane food fight between aurora and patsy . they cut away when he talks , and it sounds as if they are using an adult to talk like a funny toddler . bad taste abounds in this picture . the ending comes totally out of left field , but i guess i should not have been surprised . if it weren't for being a critic , i would have been spared the ending . there is no reason to stay if for some reason you find yourself watching this movie . vote with your feet . i wish i could have . the evening star runs way too long at about 2 : 10 . it is rated pg-13 . there are sexual situations , but no sex , nudity , or violence . the language is much worse than it needed to be and had several uses of the f word . the film would probably be okay for kids 10 and up , but why bother ? i recommend you stay as far away from this film as possible . this being the christmas season , i am going to be charitable and give it a single * . my brain told me to give it less . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
i saw it as part of san jose's cinequest film festival . [the punctuation of the film's title is a bit strange , but that is what is printed in the official program . ] i love documentaries , and i am fairly flexible about their content and composition . i do however have certain minimal standards . i expect a documentary to be more than just a collection of film stock , and although i do not count on a big budget look , i do want a picture that it is clear and bright enough to be visible . in any documentary , even mediocre ones like this one , there are some interesting moments . i did learn that at least some people in the jdl are obsessed with hate . one woman quotes the slain meir kahane as saying , " you have to hate first before you can love . " whether he actually said this or not , is open to question . in fact , the whole documentary is so one-sided that i began not to believe anything in it . it may all be true , but documentarians danae elon and pierre chainet , by sticking to a single theme and approach , caused their whole thesis to be laid open to question . the technical aspects of the picture are abysmal . the film is sometimes out of focus , but more often there is not enough light to see the subject . this meant we had to watch a talking shadow . when you realize that you could have done a much better job with the camera than the camera operator , you know a picture is in trouble . the director appears never to have storyboarded what he wanted to do with the film he had shot . the editing seems almost random . i left the never , again , forever more confused than when i went in . documentaries should enlighten and involve the audience . this one did neither . the film is not rated . although the subject is potentially quite interesting , i do not find this documentary worth recommending . i give it a single * . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . review written on : february 1 , 1997 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
" i'd cry , but my tear ducts haven't worked since my last eye job . " this is one of the better pieces of dialog in disney's remake of that darn cat , but it , like the rest of the humor in the show , elicits little laughter . the film is so bad that i found myself wishing it had a laugh track . with a laugh track i could at least pretend the movie was funny . i am careful to warn my readers about films . for this one there is a simple admonition : get coffee . unless you imbibe significant amounts of caffeine before entering the theater , you stand a good chance of not being able to stay awake through the many long and dull parts . the original 1965 movie version of that darn cat starred hayley mills and dean jones . it was not the sort of classic film that might suggest that a remake was in order nor did the remake's producer , robert simonds , have any fresh ideas for the project . the film appears to have been made solely for a quick profit . simonds seems to have figured that any disney film featuring a animal had to be a success . the remake is devoid of imagination and creative energy . ricci gives a lifeless performance . perhaps she should have heeded my coffee advice . this part , which was acted by jones in the original , is played for broad humor by doug e . doug in the remake . although i hated doug's performance , i do give him credit for being the only actor to exert any effort . even the cat in the picture is given nothing challenging to do . i have three cats , and all are more emotive than d . c . patti looks the agent sternly in the eye and says , " you're not a cat person , are you ? " most of the film relies on sight gags that you have seen a million times before . etc . , ad nauseam . in a typically unfunny scene kelso comes to patti's rescue . " you smell really bad , " says patti . director bob spiers , whose previous experience was directing television series , tries to end the show with a bang , but the lengthy chase scene is as repetitive and tiring as the rest of the picture . the show's biggest conundrum is the script . they also did the script for ed wood . both of these scripts are wonderful and highly creative . although i do not understand it , i think there may be a hint in the press kit . every one associated with the film has a lengthy biography except for them . no mention is made of their previous pictures . could it be because they whipped up this screenplay without much thought , and now want to disassociate themselves from the project ? too often critics are too easy on kids' movies . if the pictures are lifeless but harmless , they give them two stars . this version of that darn cat has nothing to challenge minds of any age , and the jokes are pathetic . whereas i do not doubt that many kids will like it , it could and should have been so much better . why shouldn't we aim a bit higher for our youngsters ? intelligent scripts can be both successful and funny , as the one for toy story proved . it is rated pg for some explosions and one mild expletive . it would be fine for most kids although the loud noises might scare some kids under 4 . i give this pitiful excuse for a movie thumbs down and a single * . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
" have you been listening ? " " the point is . the point is . i don't know what the point is . " and neither does love jones's writer and director theodore witcher . i suppose that if this lame excuse for a film has a point , it is that blacks can make formulaic romantic comedies too . in less than a week i have seen two romantic comedies , the other being fools rush in , that are neither romantic nor funny . as bad as fools rush in is , at least it had enough energy to keep your interest . in contrast , love jones is lifeless . there is not a character in the show worth caring about , and the leads demonstrate little genuine chemistry . i was in a fairly full audience and rarely heard more than a few snickers -- not a good sign for a comedy . ernest holzmann's warm cinematography evokes an immediate intimacy that promises more that the show ever delivers . all of the characters speak in a low , monotonic voice , making their dialog sometimes unintelligible . to exacerbate this , the loud background noise frequently drowns out the speech . with proper straining , one can make out their lines , but then the more substantial problem emerges . the writer constructs the dialog out of random snippets of small talk laced with heavy profanities . i go to enough art house films to be able to tune out the profanities , but love jones's dialog is vacuous with or without the cussing . i found myself wishing for the smart , funny dialog and crisp direction of spike lee's she's gotta have it . both long and tate are good looking actors , but they are unable to make any talent they have shine through this material . i suspect the director got just the mood he wanted , but it is a formula i have seen innumerable times before and without a decent script , sitting through it again was painful . i'll give you a few points of the story , and you can easily guess most of the rest . the only scene with any imagination occurs late in the picture . maysie hoy's editing has jarring cuts between scenes and lets most scenes live on way past their welcome . i became reacquainted with my watch during the show . finally , the film did end , and i was released . had i not been at a screening , i would have walked out , and if i had left , i would have missed nothing . " it ain't supposed to make sense , " he says . " love , passion -- it is what it is . " well , this show made little sense and had little credible love or passion . i hope that for his next film , first-time writer and director witcher will either avoid formula films or , if he feels compelled to make another , find something fresh to say . love jones runs too long at 1 : 50 . it is not yet rated , but will certainly get an r for a little sex , a little nudity , crude sexual humor , and a lot of profanity . if teenagers go , they should be mature . i would not wish this film on anyone else so i give it thumbs down and a single * . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
let's be honest . there are some movies that don't need to be made . with movies able to show almost any sexual behavior known , is there any longer any reason for one of those pseudo-instructional films on sex ? in the 1960s that was a popular way to get sex and nudity past the censors , but today our movies are quite explicit , too explicit some will undoubtedly argue . in one of the most pedantic shows in some time , characters read from the instructions on sex and love with complete seriousness and devotion , but it is dry as reading the phone book . okay , maybe as lively as the dictionary . looking something like an aerobics class , the teachers in kama sutra read to groups of women students the precise way to caress the toes . ( there is precious little actual sex or nudity in the movie although there is some . just like in the old risque pictures , more is promised than delivered . the script titillates while insulting the audience's intelligence . ) because the last indian film i saw , jaya ganga , was such an unexpected delight , i naively went to kama sutra with positive expectations . within 15 minutes of arrival , however , i was already checking my watch . kama sutra's rich sets by mark friedberg , gorgeous cinematography by declan quinn , and elegant red and gold costumes by eduardo castro are the only reasons to see the picture . but , as people rarely buy playboy to read the articles , the only possible reason people would stay to see all of kama sutra is to wait for another brief glimpse of flesh . ( well , there are those of us who are critics who feel compelled to stay , but the temptation to leave is almost irresistible with this class , i mean picture . ) to the extent that this pointless story has a plot it can be summarized thus . you can guess whom jai will end up sculpting and what trouble this will cause . the actresses are all lovely lasses who look like their last job was a photo shoot for vogue . the men are hunks who look like they have been posing for the covers of those romance novels known as bodice-rippers . no genuine acting is in evidence . the dialog by helena kriel and mira nair sounds as if it could have been written on a lark by a bunch of freshmen taking their first college english class . as i sat trying to endure the film , i tried to pass the time by figuring out which film kama sutra most reminded me of . finally , i decided kama sutra was closest to evita . both kama sutra and evita are lovely for the eyes to behold but have few other redeeming qualities . if you want an erotic film , kama sutra isn't it . if you are searching for a meaningful experience at the cinema , kama sutra will not supply it . if you want a movie with depth , this isn't it . if you want romance , try the english patient . the only possible motivation for paying your hard earned cash to see this picture is if you like being teased and hearing someone reading passages from obscure and didactic manuals on sexuality . and then some movies never do . whatever your reason for going to this film , i suspect you will leave disappointed and perhaps angry that this filmmaker has wasted your time with such drivel . kama sutra runs an incredibly long 2 : 00 . it is in english . it is rated r for full frontal nudity , sex , drug usage , and gratuitous violence . i see no reason for your teenagers to see this movie , but if they do , they should be mature . i recommend you avoid this meaningless film . i give it a single * only for the technical aspects of the production . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . review written on : february 26 , 1997 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
at what point does a film get so bad that it becomes good ? where does sloppy workmanship end and parody begin ? one could argue that a film can only be classified as a parody if that was the director's original intent . let's establish a benchmark . the first power rangers movie , mighty morphin power rangers : the movie , was a fairly poor movie , but it did have a minimal plot , a few memorable snippets of dialog , and some likable teenage stars . turbo : a power rangers movie , the second , and we can only hope last , of the power rangers movies has almost no plot , an awful script , and lifeless acting . it ranks way below the first in quality . his hands and feet look like something from a cheap halloween costume . overall , the outfit would be rejected as too unrealistic even for a theme park character . to top it off , his walk consists of little more than a rubbery waddle . to keep the attention of the upper end of the intended demographics of the power ranger audience , the prepuberty set , the film has women in revealing outfits and men with bulging muscles . one could argue that the costumes are to keep the adults awake , but knowing how much my 8-year-old liked the aforementioned harem outfit , i suspect the filmmakers were going after the preteen group . since the power rangers are rumored to be paid minimal wages , the cast keeps changing . the power rangers main purpose lies not in saving the world but in moving merchandise . to that end , the show has the obligatory new zords . there are exactly two interesting parts of the film . this lets the young audience identify more with the story . since this is one of the few times that they are permitted to escape their bland demeanors , it is a refreshing change . the script by shell danielson and shuki levy has no imagination and little taste . the charm of the series is the focus on the teenagers , but they are lifeless in this movie version . were these added just to insure the picture would not get the believed to be less bankable g rating ? as the picture finally ended , i found myself musing about poor amy jo johnson . " wow , this is fun , " justin tells us . well , i'm glad he had a good time . personally , i had hoped the picture would have been at least as good as the first power rangers film . even that minimal request was not granted . still , with a little editing and a few script changes , i could turn this picture into a great parody . look out airplane ! turbo : a power rangers movie runs about 1 : 35 . it is rated pg for cartoonish violence . parents with kids under six should be warned that possible frightening scenes include a bloody wound , a fall off of a rocky cliff , a few monsters straight out of aliens , and a volcano . my son jeffrey , almost 8 , loved the picture , but i hated it . however , because it was merely boring but not painful to watch , i do give a single star . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
" nobody has a clue - least of all me , " he replies . you will probably feel that way about this entire movie version of the saint . a hopeless muddle from beginning to end . the convoluted plot challenges even the most attentive viewers . i could not keep track of the details even with my trusty notepad at my side . that everyone wore black and shot at each other did not help me keep the characters straight . the show is so preposterous that i was stunned . as a critic , i do not get shocked easily , but i was aghast at how awful the story was . thirty minutes into the show , i looked over at my wife , and we both stared at each other with our mouths open . the script by jonathan hensleigh and wesley strick and the direction by phillip noyce leaves the audience dazed and confused . the show has no characters worthy of our love or hate . a totally preposterous picture that has so many logical inconsistencies you will lose track if you try to count them . let me just mention my personal favorite . randomly , people speak in russian with english subtitles , but most of the time the russians converse in english . the inconsistency makes no sense . as hopeless as the story is , the acting is much worse . sometimes there are a few bright spots in movies to help pass the time . this show has none . the people around me begin to laugh out loud at the acting as it was so pathetically bad . although the support cast is as almost as weak as the two stars , let me just stick to commenting on kilmer and shue . his most recent disgusting performance was in the island of dr . moreau , but he can be excellent as he was in tombstone . some critics use phrases that i never do because i feel they are more expletives than critical commentary . the word " self-indulgent " is one such epithet . i do not believe i have ever used that phrase to describe an actor's work until this review . in the saint , kilmer gives a performance that sets the gold standard for self-indulgent acting . not for a minute did you doubt her performance . she give us not a single believable minute in the film . the saint , in many ways , resembles another recent remake , the film mission : impossible . although i was only able to a mild thumbs up to mission : impossible , it is a cinematic masterpiece in comparison to the saint . i did learn one thing from the saint . if i ever begin to die of hypothermia , i want elizabeth shue nearby . the way she saved kilmer made it look almost worth jumping in the frozen river . the saint runs 1 : 57 , but it will feel like an eternity . the film is rated pg-13 for violence , profanity , sexual situations and drug usage . i was surprised it did not get an r rating . the film would be fine for teenagers , but i do not think it is suitable for younger kids . actually , there is no reason for anybody of any age to waste their time with the saint . i give it a whole star for reasons which escape me . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . review written on : april 1 , 1997 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
" nobody has a clue - least of all me , " he replies . you will probably feel that way about this entire movie version of the saint . a hopeless muddle from beginning to end . the convoluted plot challenges even the most attentive viewers . i could not keep track of the details even with my trusty notepad at my side . that everyone wore black and shot at each other did not help me keep the characters straight . the show is so preposterous that i was stunned . as a critic , i do not get shocked easily , but i was aghast at how awful the story was . thirty minutes into the show , i looked over at my wife , and we both stared at each other with our mouths open . the script by jonathan hensleigh and wesley strick and the direction by phillip noyce leaves the audience dazed and confused . the show has no characters worthy of our love or hate . a totally preposterous picture that has so many logical inconsistencies you will lose track if you try to count them . let me just mention my personal favorite . randomly , people speak in russian with english subtitles , but most of the time the russians converse in english . the inconsistency makes no sense . as hopeless as the story is , the acting is much worse . sometimes there are a few bright spots in movies to help pass the time . this show has none . the people around me begin to laugh out loud at the acting as it was so pathetically bad . although the support cast is as almost as weak as the two stars , let me just stick to commenting on kilmer and shue . his most recent disgusting performance was in the island of dr . moreau , but he can be excellent as he was in tombstone . some critics use phrases that i never do because i feel they are more expletives than critical commentary . the word " self-indulgent " is one such epithet . i do not believe i have ever used that phrase to describe an actor's work until this review . in the saint , kilmer gives a performance that sets the gold standard for self-indulgent acting . not for a minute did you doubt her performance . she give us not a single believable minute in the film . the saint , in many ways , resembles another recent remake , the film mission : impossible . although i was only able to a mild thumbs up to mission : impossible , it is a cinematic masterpiece in comparison to the saint . i did learn one thing from the saint . if i ever begin to die of hypothermia , i want elizabeth shue nearby . the way she saved kilmer made it look almost worth jumping in the frozen river . the saint runs 1 : 57 , but it will feel like an eternity . the film is rated pg-13 for violence , profanity , sexual situations and drug usage . i was surprised it did not get an r rating . the film would be fine for teenagers , but i do not think it is suitable for younger kids . actually , there is no reason for anybody of any age to waste their time with the saint . i give it a whole star for reasons which escape me . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . review written on : april 1 , 1997 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
" god , i love methamphetamines -- more than life itself , " confesses ex-tv child star francesca lansfield ( sarah jessica parker ) . scott winant , who was one of the directors of the tv series " my so-called life , " directs 'til there was you . filmed by bobby bukowski in shades of pastel , the movie tries hard , too hard , to be a whimsical , romantic comedy . i've never seen winant's television work , but this movie , winant's first theatrical film , arrived doa at the screening , and his direction as well as the disastrous script by winnie holzman were the culprits . i spent most of the movie staring at the screen in disbelief . the dialog is little more than a collection of snippets of meaningless small talk , and the direction is so muddled that it takes quite a while to sort out what is happening and who is who . the bad news is that when the story does become clear , you will not care . midway through the movie , in a scene with gwen's dad ( michael tucker ) , it looks momentarily as if the film will finally get its footing . her dad , who manages to be both funny and the only believable character in the film , bursts gwen's bubble . " i'm going to tell you something important , " he says while munching candy . " i never loved your mother . she was shocked , and so was i , but then the film went right back to its plastic characters and her dad vanished . ( you can almost hear the director screaming , " get him off my set ; he's not whimsical . " ) perhaps most offensive is the story's attitude toward smoking . it is way cool . you half expected to see a joe camel ad in the closing credits . it used after sex and even instead of sex -- complete with heavy , erotic panting . to complement the film's painfully slow pacing , the unrelenting music by terence blanchard and miles goodman has a staccato piano that will begin to feel like water torture . i felt like the music was trying brainwash me into believing the film's drivel through the music's repetitive romantic rhythms , which had all of the charm of a stuck record needle . " surrounded by rude french people should bring us closer together . " with dialog like this why did the producers go forward with this project ? the movie needs a rewrite and a new director . the cast would work if it had reasonable material . 'til there was you runs 1 : 44 . the film is rated pg-13 for language , sexual suggestions and drug references . the picture is remarkably tame and would be fine for kids 10 and over , but why bother ? i recommend you avoid the film , and i give it a single star for a good cast trapped in awful movie . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
sitting through the pathetically bad trial and error , one's mind naturally fantasizes about the movie that could have been . in a film where little is salvageable , two of the actors , jeff daniels and charlize theron , develop characters that have potential , albeit almost all of it unrealized . their romantic fling is the only glimmer of hope in an otherwise dismal movie . but their affair is so brief and inconsequential to the heart of this slapstick comedy that it does not come close to saving the picture . but , this little piece of the movie is a mere sideshow . you may remember daniels from gettysburg , which should have gotten him an oscar nomination for best supporting actor , or from many other films . hopefully , his fans will soon forget his part in this disaster . it is not as funny as it sounds . bilko , most of his films , such as clue and the distinguished gentlemen , have not been very successful . to be honest , the blame for trial and error should be shared with first-time writers gregory and sara bernstein . they rely on unoriginal sight gags for much of the ( non-existent ) laughter . characters fall through ceilings , people get food stuck on their mouths , lovers walk in accidentally on other lovers , actors fall over each other , guys sitting on the lawn get soaked by the sprinklers , and the canonical list of cheap movie humor goes on ad infinitum . as i left the theater i reflected on the film , ulee's gold , that i had seen at a press screening earlier in the week . it has marvelous acting and a beautiful story , but with its low budget it will open at a few art house around the country and be seen by almost no one . it is sad that so many people will accept trial and error's poor quality when films that deserve to be seen are ignored . it is rated pg-13 for language . the film would be acceptable for kids say 10 and up . i recommend you avoid this unfunny comedy . i give it * for the valiant attempts by daniels and theron to rescue a sunken movie . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . review written on : may 28 , 1997 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
first , the good news . the two leads of gone fishin' , joe pesci and danny glover , mumble so many of their lines that a large portion of the film is incomprehensible . but the audience can hear the rest of the movie . that's bad news . although i usually save the last paragraph of my reviews of kids' movies for the thoughts of my 8-year-old , his summary is too precious to hold back . jeffrey said , " the show was funny , but not enough to make me laugh . " he decided the jokes were aimed at the adults and that was why he did not get them . well , speaking as adult , i laughed about as often as jeffrey , which was just about never . both pesci and glover have tremendous talent , but they both share a propensity for signing up to do hopelessly bad comedies . the script by jill mazursky and jeffrey abrams for gone fishin' alternated between recycled humor , heavy on sight gags ( long demolition derbies being particularly popular ) , and frequent dead time where laughs were not even attempted . that this doa flick was not screened to the critics comes as no surprise . director christopher cain's last theatrical release was the amazing panda adventure , which wasn't . the critics were not appreciative of his talents then , and i suspect gone fishin' will be even less well received . actually , the two stars give the impression of two idiots playing two idiots . only because i've seen their better pictures do i know otherwise . an any rate , nothing of their characters here merit seeing . glover's wooden performance makes this long sleepwalking scene extremely tedious . catch fills them with inspiring quotations . and that most instructive of all , " be the one you want to catch . " ) dekker delivers the most accurate line in the movie . " you've got a big mouth . i couldn't have said it better myself . it is rated pg for threatened violence . the film would be acceptable for just about any age , but not worth seeing by any . although my son claims he actually liked it , he laughed very little . i was bored silly by the film so i do not recommend it . a generous one star from me . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . review written on : may 31 , 1997 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
this 1995 movie is called len deighton's bullet to beijing so that you are absolutely sure who wrote the novel upon which the movie is based . i've never read the book , but i hope that it has more emotional impact that the lackadaisical script by peter welbeck . it is so weak that a few more cliched lines would have been an improvement . only the presence of the great michael caine makes it even minimally watchable . the action sequences are lame ( read cheap ) and have little impact . the setup for the hyperbolized plot starts simply enough with palmer in the second year of watching the north korean embassy in london . that's big time death . the implausibility of this all is overwhelming . the flat dialog never sounds plausible even taken in the context of a spy movie . director george mihalka sets a languid pace that drifts from one uninteresting event to another . curling up on the sofa to watch this video will cure most people's insomnia . those who stay awake for the entire movie are less fortunate . len deighton's bullet to beijing runs 1 : 41 , but you'll swear it is longer . it is not rated but might be pg-13 . the film contains very brief nudity and cartoonish violence . it would be fine for teenagers and perhaps those a bit younger . i do not recommend the show and , out of respect for michael caine , give it a single star . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . review written on : june 15 , 1997 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
so what does it take to make a good movie for children ? an intelligent and funny script ? fully developed and believable characters ? a truly sinister villain ? a compelling story ? yes , all of those and more . if these seem similar to the requirements for a more adult film , they are . the only differences , to the extent that there are any , are the choice of subject matter and the limitations on activities ( sex , violence , profanity , . . . ) that are not appropriate for youngsters . the 1994 film the pebble and the penguin , directed by don bluth and gary goldman , fails by just about any measure . my son jeffrey , age 8 , and i saw it in the theater in one of those summer morning children's films series . our fairly full audience of kids had a severe case of the fidgets , and who can blame them . the movie opens and closes with exceedingly bland musical numbers set to barry manilow tunes . perhaps with handsomer animation , the numbers might have been tolerable . but the flat colors and unattractive drawings of this movie are never involving . although there is one colorful scene set in the tropics , most of the drawings look as if they were quickly slapped together without regard to quality . while disney movies are careful to get the animal motions right , the animals in this cheap imitation have predominately human mannerisms . i am surprised they did not have a black hat on him . ( the only funny joke in the film has hubie and rocko in a skiff pulled by a big boat . you savor any small pleasures you can find in this movie . ) some funny one-liners sure would have been appreciated . instead we get a stream of pointless dialog and some unfunny jokes worthy of a third rate vaudeville routine . " i love it when you call me bud , " responds hubie . ) he , and all of the rest of the characters , are not any of these and therein lies the film's problem . it is rated g for the lack of any offensive material . jeffrey and i decided to rate the show " dd " for double dumb . he thought the many songs were particularly " stupid . " we both give the picture thumbs down . i award it * only because it could have been worse . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
welcome to salem , and being the late 1600s , its time for witches . hocus pocus was disney's 1993 ode to halloween , and one of disney's lamest comedies . well , they do come back to life , but for all the laughs they get they should have stayed firmly in the grave . the script by neil cuthbert , mick garris , and david kirschner never finds its footing . sometimes it tries to be a beetlejuice clone , and other times it thinks it is a romantic comedy . it never has any convictions about its direction and stays constantly adrift . the best that can be said about the acting by the witches is that it is , well , bizarre . and rarely funny . for some reason , midler gets most of the dialog and the screen time . as for the other two , maybe their background roles are an advantage so that most people will not realize they were ever associated with this picture . making like the supremes , they jump right in and sing and dance their hearts out on stage . too bad , they couldn't have conjured up a little imagination and at least a few token laughs . the show should be acceptable for kids around 8 and up . my son jeffrey , age 8 , thought the show was " good " but complained that he thought " the language was inappropriate . " i do not recommend this bland comedy , and i give it just a single * . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . review written on : june 29 , 1997 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
ignore the trailers and the handsome special effects of event horizon , for it is not a science fiction movie . this is an expensive horror film that is pure schlock . it does have a glossy sci-fi wrapper , a la alien , but the quality of the underlying production is a pure b movie exercise in terror . the movie has a talented , but completely wasted cast . why the captain has such a bad attitude is never explained . first-time writer philip eisner's fatuous script includes a stream of inane lines including retreads ( " smoke 'em if you got 'em " ) , overly cute ones ( " you know the rules people . and the brutally obvious ( " what are you telling me ? the crew , which makes some pretty foolish moves later , at least does not miss this floating billboard . the audience gets to witness massive amounts of blood and nauseating special effects . people's bodies explode from within , and in the film's piece de resistance , characters rip out their own eye balls . this slickly produced bad movie has superlative special effects . objects , especially liquids , float in space with a eerie realism . still , the net effect of all of the gore in this disturbing film is apt to leave many movie goers wanting to head for a shower . some pictures , alien and aliens being the best examples , can make an apocalyptic vision fascinating . event horizon , on the other hand , is merely disgusting and watching it is about as much fun as staring at car accidents along the highway . event horizon runs just 1 : 35 but feels like it will never end . the movie is rated r for frequent profanity , massive violence and gratuitous nudity . the show would be acceptable for mature teenagers , but i do not recommend it to anyone . i give it * for the wasted special effects and the talented cast . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
adapting materials is always a tricky business , even in the most skilled hands . as short stories to be read aloud , the stories are undoubtedly entertaining and effective , but as a long cartoon , this version is painfully dull . ( " i know chelm . the writers , who never chance anything that might affect people's emotions , rarely take advantage of chelm's reportedly rampant stupidity with the result that the villagers are not foolish enough to ever tickle any funny bones . during the entire movie , i heard one child several aisles away laugh twice , and that is the sum total of the laughter generated in our audience . these writers never take any risks , resulting in a monotonically bland production . the film's jewish humor is so subtle that you have to listen very closely to find anything even remotely humorous . the film is more like a low budget religious instructional cartoon that kids might hear in church or synagogue than a traditional film . the dialog is a mixture of trite cuteness ( " now comes the sorcerer , a real no-goodnik " ) and tautological homilies ( " we are poor , and with you here we have one more mouth to feed . " ) . all this is punctuated by immediately forgettable songs . and there is padding everywhere . the minimalist story is so barren that it is hard to follow . without the fat , the movie could be reduced to a ten minute cartoon , but the remains would be just as unappetizing . the multicolored images are drawn with flat colors and the figures have a two dimensional look . the action is so slow and lifeless that the characters frequently seem in danger of becoming a freeze frame . the director , albert hanan kaminski , has little appreciation for the need for some minimal amount of energy , especially in a movie for children . in the united states it has just been released to the theaters without being screened in advance to the local critics -- one can easily see why -- and with almost no publicity . it should have gone straight to video if it had to be released at all . leaving it in the can would have been a wiser decision . it is rated g since nothing happens , and thus it would be acceptable for all ages . my son jeffrey , age 8 , said the show was " okay -- won't make my top twenty , " and his friend kerry , age 8 , rated it " medium . " i could not recommend it to anyone and give it a single star only because it was not painfully bad . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
if you've seen the trailers for disney's rocket man that have been bombarding the airwaves lately , you've probably reasoned with yourself that the film cannot possibly be as bad as it looks . actually , it's worse . some movies are so stupid they are good -- the most recent example being disney's george of the jungle . rocket man , on the other hand , starring harland williams as pee herman without the charm , remains insufferably inane . if harland williams possesses any comedic talent , it is not in evidence in this lame farce . only his imitations of old movie stars demonstrate any acting ability . " that's not possible . i programmed it myself . " the male astronauts invite harland over for drinks and get him so drunk that he does embarrassing things -- although no more so than in the rest of the story . again , in a film whose target audience is young kids , this whole sequence is wrong . to be fair , the script by greg erb and craig mazin would have been unwatchable with just about any actor playing the lead . " i'm 30-years-old , " harland tells us . " i'm almost a grown man . " almost . the show is rated pg for some of its questionable humor . the show is targeted at kids under 10 , but consider my warnings about the appropriateness of some of the scenes . my son jeffrey , age 8 , said he thought the picture was " really good , " but went on to complain that the film was " a little too stupid at times . " i hated the movie and can barely give it a single star . oh yes , there is an epilogue at the end of the credits for those of you who cannot get enough of rocket man . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . review written on : october 9 , 1997 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
so where do you go if you're an ex-doctor with a critically wounded patient to treat ? in his ubiquitous voice-over , he gets the best lines in mark haskell smith's script . his one-liners are sometimes funny and other times wise . ( " life is all a matter of perspective , " and " hell does not always look like hell . on a good day , it can look a lot like l . a . " ) the promising trailers for the film contain most of the good lines . playing god is the goriest film i've seen this year and the most gratuitously violent . when the tedious story starts dragging , as it does frequently , director andy wilson has someone stick something in a vein so blood can splatter the set . wilson's direction is aimless and confusing . when they are not throwing fits , his actors speak in whispers , which , admittedly , in this film is not necessarily a bad thing . eugene asks . at first , the script makes him seem the good bad guy as opposed to his estonian associates playing the bad bad guys , who attempt a world record for the most uses of the f-word in a single minute . the movie delights in attempts to shock the audience through blood and language . " tonight , i said to myself , 'i will not get high , ' " eugene tells the audience . " i might just as well have said to myself , 'tonight , i will not breathe . ' " and when the obligatory sequence comes where eugene goes cold turkey to give up his habit , he makes it look no worse than a case of the flu . a few chocolate bars are all it takes . plot holes and improbabilities abound . if any of the characters were likable , the frequent required leaps of faith might begin to get on your nerves , but with this collection of lowlifes , one has trouble caring . only david duchovny gives this film any humanity and provides any respite from its oppressive storyline . it is rated r for gore , excessive violence , hard drug usage , profanity , etc . the film is not appropriate for teenagers . 
without any of the refinements he has shown in some of his latter films , jim carrey , as ace ventura , keeps the humor in this one insufferably crude . never has a film been less in need of a sequel than this one , but after making over a hundred million dollars in 1994 , there has , regrettably , already been one sequel . in need of a better script than the one by jack bernstein , carrey , and the director , tom shadyac , carrey struts his stuff without restraint . carrey is an undeniable comedic genius but one in need of control . as proof of how good carrey can be , consider his relatively more restrained performances in liar , liar and the mask . the rest of the movie is the same , ad nauseam . the script is devoid of ideas , and the movie plays as if it were one long ad lib routine by carrey . she and all of the other actors provide little more than a backdrop for carrey's showing off . ace ventura has one memorable scene -- the ending credits , which bring blessed relief . it is rated pg-13 for profanity , nudity , and crude sexual humor . the movie would be acceptable for most kids ten and up . my son jeffrey , age 8 1/2 , said he really liked it and especially thought ace was funny . he volunteered that he believed the movie should be for kids 10 and up because of the sex stuff in it . 
imagine an indiana jones sequel with harrison ford replaced by a minor actor whose repertoire consists mainly of small parts in a dozen obscure films . the 1993 direct-to-video sequel to disney's huge hit aladdin , titled the return of jafar , has all of the main actors back save one . but that one , robin williams , was the only reason for aladdin's success in the first place . replacing williams in the role of the genie is dan castellaneta , an actor whose most recent picture was space jam in which he appeared 24th in the credits and played the role of " male fan . " suffice it to say that he is no robin williams . to be fair to dan castellaneta , the plot for the return of jafar can be summarized as let's get the old cast together , have them cavort in the same settings , sing some songs and generally kill the minimum amount of time necessary for something to be called a movie rather than a short . in this case , the picture does fill 66 minutes of video tape and can , therefore , just barely be legitimately referred to as a feature length movie . with his toothy smile and boyish good looks , aladdin is back along with his gorgeous girlfriend jasmine , wearing her same slightly revealing costume . their voices are done by scott weinger and linda larkin and , like most of the rest of the cast with the exception of williams , are the same as in the original . in a movie about which it is hard to find positive things to say , the songs , while far from memorable , at least are tuneful and full of energy . before watching this tape , we tried the 1970 movie scrooge with albert finney , where the songs are so pitiful that they sound more like sung dialog . the songs in the return of jafar , none of which i can remember now , did have at least possess plenty of pep and sounded like real songs . jafar ( jonathan freeman ) with his sinister little goatee is up to his old tricks -- like most of this unimaginative movie , there are few new tricks . the show plays more like a series of outtakes from the original than a sequel . the only way you can tell this is not the case is the absence of williams . the jokes are not particularly funny or original . even disney's usual superlative animation isn't up to par . looking at the credits , it appears that much of the drawing was farmed out . all and all , the return of jafar is a pretty lame film . the return of jafar runs 1 : 06 , which means less than an hour if you exclude the credits . it is not rated but would be a g and is suitable for all ages . my son jeffrey , age 8 , thought it was " pretty good , " and claimed he liked it almost as much as the original since the same characters are back . 
kevin costner's latest post-apocalyptic epic , the postman , asks the rhetorical question : is a bad , two hour movie made better by expanding it to three ? pretentious with a capital p , costner's postal waterworld delivers such cinematic balderdash that it becomes laughably bad at points . perhaps with the fat pruned , say an hour and a half or so , the movie could be viewed as a delightful parody of the genre , but as delivered , its pomposity makes laughing at it seem somehow inappropriate , sort of like laughing in church when the priest gets tongue-tied . die , and you'll be remembered . " with john bloomfield's costumes making everyone look like inhabitants of a lost dickensian novel about the american west , you feel like you should feel sorry for these people . with james newton howard's melodramatic music and stephen f . windon's sweeping cinematography , you know you are supposed to . typical of the ridiculous scenes in the movie is one that involves a shakespearean contest pitting a conscripted costner against the general . one of the best scenes in the movie -- best in the sense that it is so preposterous that ridiculing it seems appropriate -- happens at an outdoor movie . the movie flouts realism at every turn . the story's ending , as rival armies of blue and gold take to the field , combines elements of gettysburg and high noon . i won't give away who wins , but if you can't figure it out , then you may be part of just the target audience costner's self-indulgent movie needs . if you're looking for a patriotic postal service movie for christmas , then this is your picture . otherwise , in a season with more good movies that we've had all year , go see one of the many excellent ones instead . the postman runs an incredibly long 3 : 00 . it is rated pg-13 for violence , sex , nudity and dope smoking and would be fine for teenagers . 
although not one of his better stories , the movie version accentuates its problems without highlighting its better portions . the difficulty in bringing le carre's novels to the screen is that his characters are by design all cold and unlikable . this requires great skill on the director's part to stage it in such a way that the story becomes compelling . arguably the only motivation to view the movie is the chance to catch anthony hopkins , whom his fans probably think was never young , playing in one of his first movie roles . his ragged acting lacks polish , but you can glimpse the beginning of his talent and charisma . the story spends most of its time in petty spy squabbles with little actual intrigue . the characters are little more than stick figures , and the performances are all shallow , even that of hopkins . the director seems incapable of composing a compelling scene . typical of the picture is the sequence in which john and leiser sit drunk in the rain and slowly draw pictures with chalk on the wet sidewalk . even the staging of the scene of leiser sneaking across the border under the barbed wire should have been filled with tension but instead we get little more than tedium . the film , mainly devoid of music , could have been helped greatly by more of it . the story's thesis seems to be that intelligence work is boring , but doing that without making the movie be so is a tricky proposition and a trap into which this movie sinks like quicksand . the picture is not rated but would be pg-13 for mature themes , implied sex , semi-nudity , and some violence and would be fine for kids around ten and up . 
so bitter is the weather that even the surface of the sea freezes solid . with more engaging material , this approach could have worked , but the remote and uninvolving script makes less for a movie than a cinematic tone poem . rickman and sharman macdonald created the script from macdonald's play , which was hopefully better than the motion picture adaptation . " i can do what i like . i can gain weight if i like , and i can cut my own hair . " ) both law and thompson appear to be following directions carefully in their acting , but neither character is well developed or worth caring about . michael kamen's hauntingly sad piano music and seamus mcgarvey's chillingly handsome cinematography fill the screen with beauty , but the movie itself is as cold as the frozen climate . the movie is so soporific that one begins to hope against hope that some misfortune will strike one of the players to stir up some genuine conflicts and emotions . instead , all we get is contrived and meaningless banter and inconsequential actions . if the dialog is deep and worth pondering , then saying little and doing less can succeed , but this story bogs down in petty disagreements . when a show works , it is easy to forgive major mistakes in its staging , but this dreadfully dull tale had me noticing them everywhere . consider just one aspect . the story goes to great lengths to remind the audience how cold it is -- the temperature being the film's chief metaphor . why then are there so many incongruities ? " i don't where i was , " chloe remarks at one point in the movie . " i don't know who i am yet . " with the actors' scenes edited out , we would be left with a lovely fifteen minute music video . that part is all that is worth seeing . it is rated r for brief nudity and a little profanity . the picture would be fine for teenagers . 
with a paucity of ideas , the studios borrow liberally from each other , causing similar movies to appear in the same time frame . kundun has two distinct parts -- before and after the chinese invasion of peace-loving tibet . the first half is as dull as dishwater . were it not for the handsome photography and the beautiful music , i suspect that many people would walk out . as i watched the minutia of the young dalai lama's life -- feeding the fish , learning geography , buying sheep and watching the rats in the palace , i began to miss the postman . as bad as it was , at least it had a narrative and some characters . kundun , in contrast , is satisfied to be little more than a cinematic tone poem and religious homage . using all native actors , the movie looks totally authentic even if melissa mathison's script makes it relatively vacuous . roger deakins's cinematography for the movie has already won awards . although handsome , the beauty comes as much from the terrain and the sets as the camera work . the orchestral score , which overpowers many of the scenes , is so clearly composed by philip glass that having his name listed in the credits seems superfluous . the cds should sell briskly . the first half of the movie , which needs heavy trimming , has all of the interest of a well intentioned , but lifeless , religious instructional video . since it takes persecution of the tibetans to breath life into the film , the audience may feel a bout of guilt along with the relief from boredom . rather than feel anxiety , ask yourself why scorsese took so long to say so little . the older actors playing the dalai lama ( tenzin thuthob tsarong as an adult and gyurme tethong at age 10 ) approach their parts with large doses of sincerity and reverence . we see starkly , but briefly , some of the atrocities inflicted on the poor tibetans . after the show ended , the audience at our screening left looking exhausted . did the story of one of this century's key religious figures have to be so inert ? kundun sketches the outline of a story and then fills it in with a music video . kundun runs too long at 2 : 08 . it is rated pg-13 for violence and would be fine for kids twelve and up . 
but hold on , the guests are beginning to laugh . the movie mrs . dalloway , based on the virginia woolf novel , suffers from a surfeit of one-dimensional characters . having never read the book , i cannot be sure if the problem stems from the book , marleen gorris's direction or eileen atkins's adaptation . regardless of the source , the result is a film that is as dull as dishwater even if most of the cast is quite talented . most characters are played by both a younger and an older actor , but the actors cast to play them look so dissimilar and the cuts back and forth in time are so frequent that the effect is jarring . she smiles radiantly in every scene but makes clarissa seem like a person who does not have a brain in her head . if the other performances had been as strong as his , the movie would have had more life to it . most costume dramas , the wings of the dove being a recent , excellent example , are bristling with life , but not mrs . dalloway . none of the characters , with the possible exception of septimus , are worth caring about . and the movie mrs . dalloway is nothing more than a dress-up party . it is rated pg-13 for emotional elements and brief nudity . it would be acceptable for kids ten and up , but they would probably need to be older teenagers to be interested in the story . 
where is spectre when you need it ? even if we are ready to lower our expectations , the eighth bond film , live and let die from 1973 , still disappoints at almost every turn . marketed as " get moore ! " , the show , starring roger moore , delivered even less the one episode , on her majesty's secret service , that starred george lazenby as bond . whereas lazenby tried to imitate connery's style , moore doesn't seem to think style is even necessary . he takes a by-the-numbers approach to the role . roger moore , the third actor to play the classic james bond character , lacks the confidence and savoir-faire one has rightfully come to expect from our hero , 007 . although moore adequately copes with every situation , he frequently seems less in charge than just drifting along . with moore's lack of charisma , it will be interesting to see if he eventually warmed up to the role in subsequent episodes . in this one he acts like he is playing in some inconsequential tv movie of the week . ( our family is watching all the bond pictures in sequence , and since i have not seen most of them since their original release , i remember only parts of them . ) actually her part in the film , as a fortuneteller named solitaire , who works for the story's villain , is her fourth movie . solitaire , with way too much makeup , wears such outlandish outfits as a massive , red and green sequined cape with a large headdress . the black drug dealers in the movie with their big afros , long sideburns , and exaggerated gestures reminds one of those 1970's low-budget films sometimes referred to as blacksploitation flicks . one expects that genre's star , pam grier , to show up at any moment , but she doesn't . yaphet kotto , last seen in the awful two if by sea , plays the story's villain kananga , a . k . a . mr . big . arguably the happiest bad guy bond ever faces , he smiles so much that he never appears the least bit menacing . his overacting is so pathetic that it is embarrassing to watch . the best scenes in the show involve new orleans jazz-style funeral processions . in the predictable result , bond guns the engine and shears the top off smoothly . bond has a lot of little gadgets this time , including a small transmitter the size of a pack of cigarettes that is used to send morse code . " live and let die , " the movie's theme song that is sung and played in several renditions in the picture is the best part of this lame movie . i hope moore develops some charisma and style in his later bond films . why ian fleming reportedly thought moore would be the best person to play bond continues to baffle me . it is rated pg for violence and sexual innuendo and would be fine for kids around nine and up . my son jeffrey , almost 9 , liked the movie but complained that there were " too darn many snakes . " he liked moore as bond but not as much as connery . he said the movie was much better than his least favorite , the lazenby one , on her majesty's secret service . 
" first came darkness , then came the strangers , " we are told in the opening to the macabre , science fiction thriller , dark city , by the director of the crow . dalloway's rufus sewell plays the only man who may be able to save humanity -- or at least the city . or it is one and the same ? you get the idea . like an escher print , the storyline twists into itself and out again , so that what is real and what isn't become intertwined . as the tough but , like the audience , confused inspector bumstead , william hurt plays his usual character . so what can be so bad about a film with this lineup ? editing . how long do you like the camera to stay with one character before it switches to another ? 20 seconds so that the actor has a chance to say something meaningful ? 10 seconds so that we can keep a fast pace ? how about a blistering 5 ? nope , all of these are way too slow for dark city's editor , dov hoenig . 1 and 2 second clips are the norm in this movie . i know because i timed them . ( my watch and i got to know each other better as a way for me to relive my boredom . ) the result of this excessive flitting is liable to be nausea and confusion among the audience , which is a shame since there is a clever story trying to get out . but with the strobe light effect of five dozen 1-2 second clips in a row , it is hard to pay attention to anything . the only real reasons for seeing the picture are the bleak production design by george liddle and patrick tatopoulos and the grimy cinematography by dariusz wolski . for those of you who thought tim burton's vision of gotham city in batman was too bright and happy , you'll like the look of dark city . it's that loss of memory thing . ) liz keogh's costumes for the strangers are memorable . dressed in long black coats , wide brimmed black hats and big black gloves , their pancake make-up keeps them ever ready for halloween . if the editing and the confusing direction have you ready to walk out in the first fifteen minutes , don't fight the urge . yes , there are a couple of nice twists along the way and some good visuals , but most people can find many better things to do with their time . it is rated r for violence , nudity and profanity and would be fine for most teenagers . 
hush , the latest in the tradition of the mad mother movies , feels like a hundred other films you've seen before . only the delightful acting by gwyneth paltrow , as the daughter-in-law , breathes any life into it . jessica lange , as mother-in-law martha baring , plays the same role of the fidgety woman that she's played so often . the twist is that this time her restlessness is the hint that her sweetness isn't genuine . opening with the hazy close-up of a child's toy merry-go-round as it plays " hush little baby , don't you cry , " the movie immediately telegraphs where it is going . with images of the creepy old bette davis movie hush . . . helen has all of the intelligence that jackson lacks , and paltrow acts rings around schaech . helen is the first woman jackson has ever brought home to visit his mother -- one in a long series of clues that makes the film so obvious that every " twist " becomes completely predictable . " there's a mortgage . it's no big deal . " even when she walks in on them starting to have sexual intercourse in the hall -- not something most young adults would do in such a situation -- she smiles and walks away , trying not to disturb them . as is patently obvious , all is not right at the family farm . the script by michael cristofer and the director , jonathan darby , serves up many incredulities . one of the show's harder to believe claims is that martha keeps her huge house immaculate without the aid of servants . the show does have its moments . a nice little romantic comedy could have easily been fashioned from the show's promising beginning . the show's last act is so ludicrous that members in my audience were laughing out loud at it and engaging in conversation about how overdrawn and ridiculous it was . it is rated pg-13 for some violence , sensuality and brief strong language and would be fine for teenagers . 
as jaws-like music blasts through the theater speakers , we see a sinister , black range rover moving into attack position . the audience's reaction at my screening was to laugh at this hokey scene , one of many such ones in wild things . first , the bad news . wild things , unlike starship troopers and scream , isn't smart enough to realize that its only hope is as a parody . one of the film's minor roles , a slimy but cheap lawyer named ken bowden , is acted for maximum comedic pleasure by bill murray . the other actors have been hoodwinked by director john mcnaughton into believing that they are in a serious thriller . ( if you've seen the delightful movie love and death on long island with its intentionally awful hot pants college ii as a movie-with-the-movie spoof , you may begin to wonder if you just walked into hot pants college i . ) the show does become laughably bad with its many highly predictable twists and turns . and if you like shows played for maximum titillation , you'll like the nudity and the hot sex - you even get a threesome . for those seeking an intelligent script , this one by kem nunn and stephen peters will undoubtedly leave you as frustrated as some of the oversexed teenagers in the movie . " not get'n any , " one yells back . in this hamlet full of ranging hormones the kid was essentially enunciating one of the town's axioms . as kelly , denise richards , who was so perfectly cast in starship troopers , is wasted . she does little more than show off her body , which admittedly is worth displaying . neve campbell from scream plays suzie . neve , who stays fully clothed , doesn't have much challenging work to do either . ( " can i get you anything ? in a movie that telegraphs its every punch , detective ray duquette lectures suzie's ex-boyfriend as a way to talk to the audience . " don't forget that , " he throws in for good measure to make sure we are paying attention . suitably admonished not to believe anyone , we don't , which gives the upcoming twists away for those few who haven't already guessed them by that point . could the movie have been better ? absolutely . bill murray understood the material even if no one else did . imagine what this cast could have done with murray in the director's chair . then we would have had a wildly funny movie rather than this one of cheap thrills and a few laughs . it is rated r for full-frontal nudity , sex , dope smoking , profanity , and some violence and would be fine for older teenagers . 
entitled barney's great adventure , the picture , about following a magical egg , keeps its plot to a minimum . marketed sometimes as barney's great adventure : the movie , it would more aptly have been labeled barney's great adventure : the sing-along . the little ones , who would be happy to watch barney sing the phone book , will probably like the movie , which delivers large doses of their favorite overstuffed dinosaur . those hoping for more than just a long , outdoor version of barney's tv show , they will likely be disappointed . for a film aimed at the 2-7 year old set , the decision to cast child actors all around 10-years-old seems surprising and inappropriate . there is a one-year-old who has a few scenes , but most of the movie features these three older kids and barney . " you'll have scenery to look at . " thanks to a little water , the girls' toy barney turns into a real-life one , who sings and dances various short numbers . cody thinks he's way too cool for barney , but - surprise - by the end of the movie , he will be hugging him and singing-along too . even allowing for the lack of a real script , the actors demonstrate very little acting talent . with the humans getting more screen time than barney , their weakness drags down the movie considerably . and then there's the overall look of the picture . as filmed by sandi sissel , normally a television cinematographer , the multicolored sets look flat and dull . only in the magical scene of the host of hot-air balloons does sissel rise above the drab . the movie does have its silly , little delights . barney's great adventure runs just 1 : 15 . it is rated g and is appropriate for all ages . my son jeffrey , almost 9 , said that at his age he " kind of liked " the movie , but that he suspected younger kids would like it . jeffrey's biggest complaint was that there were way too many songs . 
why do filmmakers feel compelled to tell us basically the same story we've already heard ? last year it was volcano and dante's peak , and this year we have the boxer and twentyfourseven , which might have been more aptly titled the boxer-light - very light . with a bloated face , hair like a discarded mop , bruised skin and incoherent demeanor , hoskins , as the story's protagonist alan darcy , immediately shocks us . and with ashley rowe's gritty black-and-white cinematography the movie looks quite promising . then it proceeds to go nowhere . we are told darcy's story in flashback . the picture's sporadic voice-over by hoskins is intelligent and insightful , something the rest of the script by paul fraser and the film's director shane meadows isn't . " if you've never had anything to believe in , you're always going to be poor , " he reasons with us . the film lacks any coherent narrative . ramblingly along with little happening - there's not even much boxing or practicing - the teens in his club make small talk and go on hikes in the woods , in which the director gives visual emphasis to such trivia as going to the bathroom outdoors . the large supporting cast has precious little to do . the director makes them into a faceless slice of humanity with no one standing out . this is somewhat complicated by the accents , except for hoskins's , which are so thick that subtitles might have helped - but not much . the actors evidence little energy or compassion for the movie , and they all play interchangeable parts . we learn that the teens and their parents are an angry lot , although the movie rarely goes to the trouble of explaining their motivation , other than being poor . when the big boxing match finally happens , it's more like a quick barroom brawl . only when one fight goes tragically wrong does the story finally come alive with some much needed , genuine poignancy . other than that , the lifeless picture is easily forgotten . it is rated r for language , violence and some drug content and would be fine for older teenagers . 
this time its twists are gruesome rather than sexual , and the movie itself is a black comedy instead of a drama . the body of the film doesn't work - it isn't funny - and the " surprises " in its conclusion really aren't all that unpredictable . one of the best parts of the movie is the slaphappy jazz rendition of the pop tunes of the early 60s era in which the story is set . the movie is a coming-of-age picture with the demented francie going from one trouble to another . many members of my audience thought his behavior was a laugh riot , but i never found it funny , only pathetic . the comedy tries to be so over-the-top that i swear i could hear a subliminal laugh track . the zany music almost demands laugher . typical of jordan's utter lack of subtlety is that he cuts from a scene of francie trashing a neighbor's kitchen to their television set , which shows an atomic bomb exploding . one good performance does not a movie make . and a comedy that isn't funny is an oxymoron . it is rated r for profanity and graphic violence and would be fine for older teenagers . 
with the mark of true talent , jada pinkett smith , who was eddie murphy's girlfriend in the recent remake of the nutty professor , manages to shine in the otherwise dismal movie woo . with her infectiously happy smile , the beautiful actress has enough spunk and confidence to rise above the material . although not quite enough to make the movie enjoyable , her performance does give some respite to the audience , who has to endure every black and male stereotype in the book . as celestrial , a performer known as girlina overacts like the rest of the supporting cast . mixed with their disparaging remarks on the woman's anatomy , they stick out their tongues to make sexually provocative gestures . as written by david c . johnson and directed by daisy von scherler mayer , the picture , with its heavy slapstick , feels lifted from some raunchy cable sitcom with a heavy laugh track . no gesture is too crude to include and no situation too cliched . " this is funny ; this is funny , " tim tells woo at one point . " this is funny ? " " what does that mean ? " she doesn't know , and neither did the makers of this movie . woo runs just 1 : 25 . it is rated r for profanity and sexual situations and would be fine for older teenagers . 
since warner brothers is probably hoping for another space jam-sized hit , perhaps we should review for them a few of the requisite ingredients of a successful cartoon movie . first , the animation needs to be colorful and well drawn . second , the story needs to be lively enough to interest the kids while having enough intelligence to keep the adults awake . third , at least some of the songs have to be memorable . last , and certainly not least , the script must have some genuine humor . although not a bad movie , it is an almost terminally bland one . garrett , like the blindfolded luke skywalker , can battle without benefit of sight . the setup for the story is that excalibur is lost , and , if it is not found , camelot is doomed . unlike the lively and funny trailer , the lethargic movie slinks along at a snail's pace with the first half being sort of a dreary history lesson and the last being a failed attempt at comedy . john gielgud , jessalyn gilsig , eric idle , gary oldman , bronson pinchot and don rickles , but the script by first-time screenwriters kirk di micco and william schifrin , based on the book by vera chapman , doesn't give them any to say worth hearing . the songs by david foster and carole bayer sager range from the eminently forgettable to the truly awful . if you can remember any a few minutes after leaving the theater , then you're probably a music teacher . with literally hundreds and hundreds of animators listed in the five minutes of credits , why did the animation have to be so boring ? the drab colors of dingy blues , browns , and grays are singularly ugly , and the images are drawn with little detail or imagination . the first part of the film is basically devoid of humor . with only a few jokes and a couple of nice visuals -- the best has them as elvis impersonators -- their impact on the picture is limited . in our theater , which was crowded with kids , there was precious little laughter during the movie . and if there ever was a movie in need of a little comic relief , it is this one . it is rated g and would be fine for the entire family . my son jeffrey , age 9 , was fairly unenthusiastic about the picture . he gave it * * and said he liked the ogre and the two-headed dragon best . he pointed out that the ogre has square feet but leaves long human shaped footprints . he doesn't think the movie will do very well at the box office . 
" human warmth was very present . thus we have a film of revisionist history in which the filmmaker seems to be saying that if , we just brought back communist totalitarianism , the people would pull together and be happy again . regardless of the background for the picture , the story by andrei kurkov has a promising plot but little more . if this all sounds like a fascinating black comedy , it isn't . the movie is devoid of humor , and the director stages scenes way too slowly , emphasizing the tragedy of the film's depressed protagonist . vladimir gronsky's melancholy music permeates many of the scenes to remind of us of the pervasive sorrow in the land . and all the compelling characters disappeared from this movie before the filming started . all that we are left with is the outlines of a story . it is in russian with english subtitles . the picture is rated r for some nudity , profanity and violence and would be fine for older teenagers . 
if you like your 007s as dry as a dry martini , this may be the bond for you . the mundane visuals fit right in with the bland storyline . where are the signature chase scenes , the sexual humor and the romantic trysts that we come to bond films for in the first place ? here the chase scenes are mainly saved until the end . dalton's reaction ? the old james sought out such opportunities without being coerced . dalton is dead serious , having little time to waste on women or humor . a white-suited wayne newton , providing some much needed humor , appears in a cameo as a televangelist on the prowl for donations . after a languid and completely formulaic movie , the pace finally picks up at the end in a long chase scene using large gasoline trucks . when the only memorable visual is a semi doing a wheelie , you know the picture is in trouble . it is rated pg-13 for profanity and violence and would be fine for kids around 9 and up . my son jeffrey , age 9 , thought the movie was just okay . he gave it * * and complained that it was too bloody . 
her acting in her last project , the atrocious hush , was ridiculously off-the-wall , and her work in the one before that , a thousand acres , wasn't much better . her new picture , a screen adaptation of the great balzac novel , " cousin bette , " finds her badly miscast . in contemporary films like blue sky and the music box , her talents have shone , but in a costume drama about nineteenth century manners , she and her costar elisabeth shue are awkward and out of place . anyone who has ever seen the bbc miniseries will be bitterly disappointed by the movie cousin bette . whereas the television version had interesting characters with some considerable depth , the movie version , as scripted by lynn siefert and susan tarr , is as flat and blandly modern as the nightly news and as shallow as a comedy sketch . director des mcanuff stages the scenes confusingly so that people who have not read the novel may have trouble keeping up with the meandering storyline . the superficial film seems to try for a light parody , but mainly the story just drifts . some scenes are so bad they are good . dressed in drab olive greens and dingy blues , jessica lange is bette , the show's manipulative protagonist . as jenny's seamstress , bette cuts off the entire buttocks area of jenny's costume . this makes the already popular actress even more so . nothing like bare buns to excite the nineteenth century masses . simon boswell's loud and pervasive music has all the subtlety of the " pomp and circumstance march . " although it overwhelms the production , at least it is of consistently good quality - listening to it is just like sitting in the drawing rooms of the nineteenth century rich and famous and enjoying a live concert . " life is so boring , don't you think ? " this movie version of the rich and wonderful balzac novel has so little to recommend it that it is , indeed , quite boring . it is rated r for brief scenes of sex , nudity , and violence and would be fine for most teenagers . 
set at one long party featuring underage alcohol abuse and the trashing of a house , can't hardly wait is fast times at ridgemont high without the laughs . written and directed jointly by harry elfont and deborah kaplan , a team whose only credited role is as the screenwriters of a very brady sequel , can't hardly wait brings together all of the high school stereotypes into a single movie . the picture features horny but brainless jocks , tacky bimbos , clueless nerds and would-be gangsta white kids . the only missing ingredient for a proper parody is a humorous script . like godzilla , the movie teases us for the first twenty minutes without revealing what she looks like . sandwiched in-between the bad jokes is a would-be tender romance . the movie passes the time by recycling humor you've heard before . can't hardly wait runs 1 : 39 . it is rated pg-13 for underage drinking , profanity and sexual situations and would be acceptable for older teenagers . 
stuart bliss has noticed that the birds are flying in the wrong direction , which is just one of many signs he has been picking up lately . is this all a paranoid delusion , or is he onto something big ? stuart bliss , by first-time director neil grieve , is a black comedy with the emphasis on the darkness . although it has sporadic touches of humor to temper the descent into madness , the monotonic story written by the director and the movie's star , michael zelniker , takes a relentless approach . never sympathetic or complex , the story's protagonist , stuart bliss ( zelniker ) , is a played as a cipher . with the vacant stare of a zombie , stuart movies through the picture like an automaton . the story itself holds so much promise that audiences will likely stay with it even though its slow pacing takes what would have been a fascinating short film and transforms it into a full-length , but soporific , movie . the story opens well with some good , subtle humor . with actors playing multiple roles , the movie tries to confuse the audience in much the same way that stuart is befuddled . the problem is that after a while the audience simply doesn't care any more . why the director created a stick figure lead is the movie's real mystery . a little variety in the acting , some real emotion , and a few laughs would have helped enormously . it is not rated but might be pg-13 for adult themes and would be fine for any teenager . the movie is in the process of getting a distributor and thus does not yet have a release schedule . 
billy brown is an irritating character who suffers from diarrhea of the mouth . " if you make me look bad , i swear to god , i'll never talk to you again , " he threatens her . gallo also composed the music , co-wrote the script , and stars as billy , the story's pitiful loser . starting as a black comedy and eventually dissolving into tragedy , the movie features well-known actors in unbelievable and unlikable roles . his bright red boots anchor his otherwise ragged outfit . billy's parents are cliches . ( although i rarely watch football , i found myself watching the game as a way to kill time during the long , contrived family discussions and staring sessions . ) gallo loves staging scenes in ways that reek of too much attempted cuteness . in a badly scripted scene at the kitchen table , the family engages in small talk while the stiffly composed image has them stuck on the screen like a two-dimensional kid's cartoon . typical of the ridiculousness of the plot is the source of the father's anger at the dinner table . although the characters' affectations can be maddeningly annoying , some are so ridiculous as to be campy fun . it is not rated but would be an r for profanity , violence and nudity and would be fine for older teenagers . 
summer is the time for action movies so director richard donner competes in the explode-o-rama by opening lethal weapon 4 with - count 'em - three big pyrotechnics displays in a row . whew . and that all happens in the first 10 minutes or so . the movie itself is such a hopeless retread of the previous lethal weapon movies that you wonder why donner even tried . channing gibson wrote the screenplay , and three other writers are credited with the story , which is surprising since there isn't much of a story . it seems that their brand of destructive police work causes more damage than the insurance company will allow . violating the well-established rule that a little bit of joe pesci goes a long way , donner lets pesci's grating humor permeate way too much of the movie . easily the best part of the film is the appearance of chinese acting star and martial arts expert jet li as the movie's villain , wah sing ku . with moves of ballet-like precision and artistry , he dazzles the audience . the best part of the original lethal weapon was its humor , which is almost absent from its fourth version . lee butters's reading of the miranda rights is a hoot , but most of the remaining jokes are stale . any script that has to fall back on " flied lice " jokes about chinese food as a way to try to get a laugh has pretty much lost it . although one is probably not supposed to think through the logic of the action in lethal weapon movies , some of the events may cause your brain to spin a bit . take just one example . several times riggs and murtaugh complain that they're too old to be still doing this stuff . it is rated r for profanity and strong violence and would be fine for most teenagers . 
writer and director sandra goldbacher's the governess is a movie all dressed up with no place to go . it knows it wants to be an atmospheric costume drama that feels as fresh as the latest " masterpiece theater " series . what it lacks is a compelling story to tell . most of the characters in this somniferous tale are not well drawn . they become lovers in a bit of never very credible chemistry . edward shearmur's music for the film is wonderfully dark and mysterious - a quality the lifeless picture rarely obtains . the average " masterpiece theater " episode is much livelier and certainly preferable to the governess . it is rated r for sex and nudity and would be fine for older teenagers . 
it seems there's a serial killer on the loose , who is making all of those urban legends come to life -- or more precisely to death . quite similar to i know what you did last summer , from which it borrows many key plot elements , urban legend is a full-fledged member of the teen-horror-flick genre . somewhere there must be a rulebook for these movies since they all adhere to the same principles . -- they will start dropping like flies . the killer's face will remain hidden by a heavy coat , but just about everyone will own a coat exactly like the killer's . and most of what makes audiences jump will be good guys who appear without warning into the scene . i will reveal it now if you promise never to tell another living soul . if you tell anyone else , a person in a heavy coat will pay you a visit . the character with the purest background and the one who appears least likely to be the killer is always the murderer . urban legend is more concerned with amusing the audience than frightening it , which is good since it is rarely frightening but it is sometimes genuinely humorous . the scene then gets so ridiculous that it is hilarious . most of the rest of the movie isn't this funny however . as the attractive lead , natalie , alicia witt gives the same completely superficial performance as the rest of the cast . there are other people in the cast , but they are so interchangeable that it hardly seems worth mentioning any more names . to be fair to the actors , the script doesn't call for them to do much . all of the characters suffer from high degrees of stupidity and bad luck . although director jamie blanks just connects the dots , screenwriter silvio horta shows some good comedic flair . " it wasn't helping my gpa . " urban legend at its best revels in its ridiculousness . too bad urban legend didn't have bigger aspirations than being yet another horror movie starring teenagers . it is rated r for violence , sex , and profanity and would be fine for most teenagers . 
it seems there's a serial killer on the loose , who is making all of those urban legends come to life -- or more precisely to death . quite similar to i know what you did last summer , from which it borrows many key plot elements , urban legend is a full-fledged member of the teen-horror-flick genre . somewhere there must be a rulebook for these movies since they all adhere to the same principles . -- they will start dropping like flies . the killer's face will remain hidden by a heavy coat , but just about everyone will own a coat exactly like the killer's . and most of what makes audiences jump will be good guys who appear without warning into the scene . i will reveal it now if you promise never to tell another living soul . if you tell anyone else , a person in a heavy coat will pay you a visit . the character with the purest background and the one who appears least likely to be the killer is always the murderer . urban legend is more concerned with amusing the audience than frightening it , which is good since it is rarely frightening but it is sometimes genuinely humorous . the scene then gets so ridiculous that it is hilarious . most of the rest of the movie isn't this funny however . as the attractive lead , natalie , alicia witt gives the same completely superficial performance as the rest of the cast . there are other people in the cast , but they are so interchangeable that it hardly seems worth mentioning any more names . to be fair to the actors , the script doesn't call for them to do much . all of the characters suffer from high degrees of stupidity and bad luck . although director jamie blanks just connects the dots , screenwriter silvio horta shows some good comedic flair . " it wasn't helping my gpa . " urban legend at its best revels in its ridiculousness . too bad urban legend didn't have bigger aspirations than being yet another horror movie starring teenagers . it is rated r for violence , sex , and profanity and would be fine for most teenagers . 
other movies make guest appearances as well . this is a comedy , whose one joke consists of two guys bobbing their heads to the film's wonderfully energetic music . the joke wears thin very fast . if so , then you are likely part of the target audience for a night at the roxbury . most viewers , however , will find it a film with a few genuine good laughs but not many . filmed by francis kenny in grainy , over-saturated colors , the movie has a cheap appearance that looks almost like it was shot on videotape and later transferred to film stock . in a film that works best at the physical comedy , the brother's dancing style comes straight from the nfl playbook for offensive tackles . " if i said you had a nice body , " asks one of their dates . " would you hold it against me ? " if you've seen the movie's annoying trailers , you've already seen the best parts . compared to a night at the roxbury , the sporadically funny mafia ! from earlier this summer is a comedic masterpiece . this much is certain . after you leave the theater , even if you forget most of the lame humor , which is likely , the music will stay with you . buy the cd and skip the movie . it is rated pg-13 for brief nudity , sexual situations , and a little profanity and would be fine for kids 12 and up . 
the audience for holy man will undoubtedly be just as nonplussed as g's fictional television viewers since little happens for interminably long periods of time in the movie . the script by tom schulman doesn't know where it wants to take the movie . there isn't nearly enough humor for a comedy , and the attempts at poignancy are awkward at best . schulman's last script , 8 heads in a duffel bag , was awful enough to earn the picture prominent positions on many of last year's lists of the worst films . " it depends on what you call 'flat , ' " he reasons . the movie tries to create a romantic angle between the two of them , but this subplot goes up a dead-end street like the rest of the story . before long he has his own program named -- what else -- " the g spot , " whose tag line is " a higher state of consciousness and non-stop shopping . " his mixture of pop religion and soft-sale capitalism fascinates viewers . would you rather be a " bay watch " babe or the dalai lama ? the movie is peppered with a series of cameos by everyone from football players to old stars in television shopping parodies . eddie murphy , although he is given some raunchy lines totally inappropriate in a pg rated movie , is remarkably restrained . one can have vigor in a role without being obscene , but eddie's brand of humor seems to work best only if it is relatively unhampered . in a movie that is generally as mild as milquetoast , there are nevertheless many parts that parents will find objectionable . the frequent profanity and sexual humor are not appropriate in a pg movie likely to attract kids . and why do we have a joke with the word " penis " mentioned three times in about as many sentences ? since most of the jokes are laced with sexual innuendo , the movie really isn't for kids . on the other hand , there isn't enough humor in the movie for teenagers or adults so the target audience is questionable . sometimes , as in jeff goldblum's long monologue on his father's failure as a salesman , the movie tries hard , too hard , to be touching . never does it succeed as anything other than a comedy , but it is a comedy with remarkably little laughter . although the movie has a long elapsed time of almost two hours , the director spends most of it trying to run out the clock . when the film's corny ending finally arrives , it is as unbelievable as it is predictable . surely , the test screening audiences must have warned them that the movie contained long stretches of humorless and pointless material . why didn't they do massive surgery to trim this celluloid fat ? in its place some truly funny home shopping sequences could have easily been added . it is rated pg for profanity and sexual humor , but parents should treat it as pg-13 . the film is acceptable for kids around 10 and up . my son jeffrey , age 9 , gave the movie * * ? . both boys seemed restless and relatively uninterested during the movie . 
quite a lot actually , in writer and director stefan ruzowitzky's morality tale , the inheritors ( die siebtelbauern ) , set in a 1930's austria that looks like the 1730s . the setup concerns the effect of the owner's will . not some noble gesture , his bequest is done as a kind of a lark , and he says in the will that he expects them to fight among themselves . the formula film rigidly dichotomizes the local inhabitants into the good and the bad . the bad can be just as easily recognized . they are the farmers with their abundant girth and black , somber suits , hats and ties . the farmers get lines certain to draw our wrath . the characters lack much depth or complexity . made in interchangeable parts , the peasants are downtrodden and hence worthy of our sympathy . it is all rather like vaudeville plays in which they hold up " applause " and " hiss " signs to instruct the audience on how they are supposed to feel when the various characters are on stage . as a director , stefan ruzowitzky strives to set a whimsical tone , but his script doesn't provide much humorous material to back up his intentions . the problem with this and other similar scenes is that the characters are not genuine enough for us to care as we should . lacking much complexity , the movie exists on scenes like the recurring one around the large kitchen table . ultimately it isn't what happens in the inheritors that is the problem , but what doesn't . the story is so thin that it is barely there , and the formula film runs most of the time on autopilot . the film isn't rated but would be an r for sex , nudity , violence , profanity and rape and would be acceptable for teenagers only if they are older and mature . 
for those of you who've always thought that arnold schwarzenegger was too emotional in the terminator series , kurt russell , as sargent todd in soldier , is so unemotive that he gives a whole new meaning to the word acting . with all the charisma and liveliness of a tree , he gives a wooden performance as a wooden character . where's the art in that ? ( has anyone ever thought that the future might be better ? ) with so few science fiction movies being made every year , paul anderson's bad ones are in danger of polluting the market for other would be science fiction filmmakers . the movie contains realistic scenes of 8-year-old boys beating each other to a pulp as the blood spurts from their battered bodies . ( the adults treat each other worse in one of the goriest films of the year . director anderson has no concept of subtlety . think there might be a rematch ? you are way ahead of the story . actually you could easily complete the predictable screenplay . todd , acting like a robot , has two modes -- staring and fighting . in the first , his brain seems to be in an idle loop . todd spends a lot of time getting beaten-up and generally abused , but he manages to keep on going . in our audience , one of the few big laughs came from some young kids , who were inappropriately at an r rated movie with their father . ah , too bad writer david webb peoples couldn't have come up with some funny lines like that to insert into the leaden script . only gary busey , as the head of the old soldiers , gets any decent lines . " you must feel something ? " although todd , in one of the few times he speaks during the movie , comes up with a reply , the real answer is that he doesn't feel , not in any normal sense . if soldier had been rewritten as a parody , it might have had some hope . or , if the lead had been given some complexity and a touch of humanity , that might have helped . what we are offered instead is a movie in which we have to watch soldiers who kill men , women , and children with no more compassion than we'd reserve for an ordinary housefly . if the story had something to say , we might forgive its needless gore , but it doesn't . soldier has the depth of a television-wrestling match , but without the comedy . it is rated r for strong violence and profanity and would be acceptable for older teenagers . 
happy gilmore's adam sandler is back in the waterboy , an over-the-top slapstick movie . he plays a moron with a speech impediment in a movie full of such overdrawn characters . the net result is a grating sound that , thankfully , causes half of his inane lines to be indecipherable . if you are already laughing from these descriptions , you'll probably love the movie . to be fair , our audience full of twenty-year-olds certainly did . the characters in the cliched script have an intelligence level inversely proportional to the intensity of their southern accents . if african americans were parodied this much , they would be picketing the theaters , but the southern white hick is considered fair game for merciless ridicule . the script by tim herlihy and adam sandler has all of the depth and originality of a failed pilot for a television sitcom . a character with crossed eyes is one of the many sight gags . typical of the story's unoriginal jokes is the way that the football players taunt bobby , they spit in the team's water . at any rate , the big game does have some well-choreographed football scenes , the one thing director frank coraci gets right . let's hope sandler's next movie includes drew barrymore as did his last , the wedding singer . it is rated pg-13 for mild profanity , brief male nudity and sexuality and would be acceptable for kids around 11 and up . 
there is a scene , a few dead bodies into this week's slasher flick , that occurs when one of the minor characters has his hand nailed into the table with the killer's signature hook . the movie's remaining dialog has the same level of sophistication . it's now name-that-movie time . which movie featured a slow moving killer in a rain slicker , who gored his targets with a hook ? yes , it was i know what you did last summer . guess what ? he lives again in the sequel called i still know what you did last summer . and he'll probably maintain his immortality as long as teen audiences keep flocking back for more . the completely formulaic script by trey callaway is directed by the numbers by danny cannon . frightening scenes , filmed in murky shadows and accompanied by creepy , ominous music , have surprises that are a careful mixture of evil and innocence . sometimes there will be a bloody , dead body behind that door , but just as often it will prove empty . and the person you least suspect will be one of the guilty parties . the film should have been played for maximum parody but wasn't . the director has no compunction about chopping up human bodies with less compassion than your butcher . swimsuit ads are more revealing . even if the killer shows no mercy to his victims , the director does . i still know what you did last summer runs 1 : 36 . it is rated r for gore , sexuality and some dope smoking and would be acceptable for most teenagers -- for whom the movie was obviously written . 
it's war out there . sometimes it thinks its mission is as a slapstick comedy . the weak script by mark steven johnson and steven bloom succeeds at neither . although its hero , a snowman , cries , the audience is unlikely to shed any tears , and the comedy provides no more than a few modest laughs . a project with a good idea but nothing more , the movie needs a complete rewrite . during the long and dull first half-hour , we are introduced to the characters . you will be wrong . keaton , who is a great comedian , gets lines so lame that even he can't do much with them . the writers think the word " butt " is funny so they proceed to go for the world record for the maximum uses in a single movie . suffice it to say that few of the uses are humorous . with two branches for arms and what looks like a halloween costume of a snowman for the torso , he comes alive . filled with long chase scenes on snowboards and sleds , the movie tries hard to gain some momentum but fails . don't be surprised if you end up thinking of the old samuel goldwyn quote : " why should people go out and pay to see bad movies when they can stay at home and see bad television for nothing ? " why indeed . jack frost is rated pg for sexuality and bathroom humor and would be acceptable for kids 8 and up . my son jeffrey , age 9 , was bored stiff . he said he thought the film " stunk , " especially the long , first part . he thought there was nothing to the plot . a normally generous grader , he gave the movie just a single * . 
his scrambled brain , which appears to have been fried by too much time in the hot african sun , has his mouth rambling and speaking nonsense . one wishes that frank mcguinness's script would have made her bitchier to add more tension in the lackluster drama . the sisters look and dress similarly , and the script does not create enough depth to make them stand out as individuals . " are you really my daddy ? " michael asks his father in one of the few funny lines in a laugh-starved movie . " you've seen me 5 or 6 times , " his father replies . " don't you remember ? " a slow moving tale of poorly drawn characters , the movie has a strong cast , but the script gives the players little to say that is worth hearing . shot mainly with interior scenes , the movie spends most of its time in uninteresting small talk among the sisters . one keeps hoping that something awful will happen to one of them to get the narrative going . instead , we get an hour and a half of director pat o'connor running out the clock . bill whelan's luxurious music and kenneth macmillan's radiant cinematography outshine the threadbare storyline . this dreadfully dull film will have you looking in vain for something to keep your interest lest you begin to nod off . it is hard to believe that the poorly scripted movie would have been green-lighted for production without streep . given the script , it is equally hard to understand why streep agreed to do the movie . on stage , the play may have worked , but this movie version doesn't . " do you know what i'm thinking ? " maggie asks toward the end of the picture . i confess that my immediate reaction was , " no , and i don't care . " by then they had wasted an hour and half of fine film stock with nothing to show for their work other than wasting the audience's time . sometimes even a fine cast is unable to save a dismal endeavor . it is rated pg for mature themes and would be fine for kids around 12 and up . there is nothing to offend younger kids , but they will probably be bored . 
varsity blues cannot make up its mind what kind of movie it wants to be . at its core , it contains an honest examination of the pressures placed on high school athletes by their parents and coaches . produced jointly by mtv films and paramount pictures , the movie completely buries its dramatic side with a laughless and cliched teenage comedy . in the one notable piece of acting in the film , a serious jon voight plays coach bud kilmer . director brian robbins manages to get all of the small-town , football rituals right , although they may be somewhat dated . the director gets the quieter moments right as well . " you never question the sanctity of the coaches , " mox adds later . savor the film's few serious moments , and perhaps they can sustain you through the lame comedy by writers john gatins and w . peter iliff that so dominates the movie . with a pretty boy smile but little depth , james van der beek plays mox . with its recurring theme about coaches abusing players , the movie asks some challenging questions , but it quickly reverts back to bad slapstick before the audience has a chance to ponder the issues . varsity blues is the type of movie in which the height of comedy consists of casting a 400 pound actor , ron lester , to play the team's dumb guard , billy bob , and giving the guard a pet pig to ride next to him in his big pick-up . the story's depictions of alcohol abuse have to be its low points . teens watching this movie will learn many lessons , and few of them will be good . for all of its faults , the movie does come up with a nice twist in the obligatory big game finale . the twist , however , isn't worth waiting for , so if you feel the urge to walk out sooner , don't resist . the movie might be acceptable for older teenagers , but watch out for the messages they will be getting . 
although based on a true story , as the movie reminds us , the preachy and overlong film stretches credulity at every turn . as directed by tom shadyac and written by steve oedekerk , who worked together on the recent remake of the nutty professor , the movie should come complete with two warnings . first , the fda should serve notice to the audience . although the agency knows that the ingestion of large quantities of artificial sweeteners can kill lab rats , the effect on audiences of such a sickeningly sweet script have not been tested . second , parents should be on notice that the film , quite unlike its happy trailers , is full of death and dying . the realism is more than one might expect from the film's marketing and its pg-13 rating . jokes about masturbation and gynecologist's stirrups are just a few of the movie's questionable inclusions that may surprise parents expecting lighter fare . the syrupy script feeds him lines that sound more like readings than conversations . the nefarious dean gets the worst of the cliched lines . the movie , heavy on messages , has as a basic theme that it isn't the drugs and the operations that will save your life . what you need is a feel-good doctor . and if he doesn't cure you , at least you'll die a little bit happier . these bald , cancer-stricken kids are genuine and cute , the only such characters in the story . the movie lets robin cut up for no reason other than getting some cheap laughs . to the cheering audience of conventioneers . what -- you may ask -- is this scene doing in this movie ? movies like patch adams need aids to help you through it . when you have trouble falling asleep , you count sheep . it almost seems that he manages to wear more shirts than there are scenes in the movie . there may be other survival tricks , but , hopefully , this one will suffice . patch adams runs too long at 1 : 55 . it is rated pg-13 for frightening scenes of death and dying , profanity and crude humor and would be acceptable for kids over 12 . my son jeffrey , age 9 , was bored and upset by the film , giving it only * ? . he liked some of the humor such as the invisible squirrels' scene . he didn't like the " bad words " and complained that the movie was way too sad . his friend alan , age 9 , liked the way the film was " funny and disgusting " but thought it was too sad . he generously gave it * * * . 
in the original 1949 version of mighty joe young , the swell looking guys and dolls , dressed in fancy tuxedos and sequined gowns , lounge around the swanky nightclub while waiting for the big act , billed simply as mr . joseph young . as the platform under her rises magically , we see that it is being elevated by nothing less than a super-economy-sized gorilla named joe , mr . joseph young to you . dressed tackily in skimpy , leopard skins and roman sandals , the men are easily defeated . how big is the gorilla ? how big do you want him to be ? sometimes joe appears only slightly taller than a human and sometimes he is several times taller . even if you totally discount the hokey special effects in the movie , the rest is equally ridiculous . the film starts off with promising , childlike innocence . this second part of the movie is a western set in the jungle . the guys on the safari wear big cowboy hats and ride horses . the most outlandish sequence occurs when the fully-grown and fearsome joe makes his entrance . as directed by ernest b . schoedsack , the original mighty joe young plays like a single episode of one of those slapdash serials . ruth rose's corny script is full of forgettable little lines that probably sounded as fake then as they do now . you keep off of it , you big bullies " and " am i dreaming ? did i see a gorilla and a beautiful dame ? " ) as they say , " they don't make movies like they used to . " sometimes that's not a bad thing . so why , you ask , would disney choose to remake such a miserable movie ? the answer undoubtedly is that the sweet concept does have significant potential as family fare . the remake was fairly mediocre , but , compared to the original , it reminds us that sometimes newer is better , even in hollywood . the film is in black and white except for a two-strip technicolor sequence during the ending fire scene , which renders the images in black , white and red . it is not rated but would be a g -- suitable for all ages . he said he liked the fire scene and nothing else . he gave it a single * and said " don't waste your time on it since there is nothing worth seeing . " 
" they say that times change things , but actually you have to change them yourselves . " -- andy wahrhol in the opening credits director odile isralson's running for bogota is a handsomely shot documentary about 2 political neophytes , both running for the colombian congress in 1998 . the remarkable impression that the documentary gives you is that this will no longer be a problem since these two women promise almost nothing . both candidates talk incessantly about why they are entering politics , with self-actualization appearing to be high on the list . although there are references to " fighting for the people , " what they are fighting for what is rarely mentioned . a few times each of them comes out foursquare against crime and murder , who wouldn't , but they never say what they would do to reduce the rate of either . they are also " concerned about children " -- aren't we all ? the film has a middle and a brief ending , but the necessary introduction is truncated to a few textual visuals about the large number of colombians who have fled the country or been murdered . we never really find out . is the documentary meant as an indictment of the lack of relevance in politics , as seems unlikely , or is it just a confusing paean to the determination of two political novices to save their country ? having several colombian friends , i was looking forward to this film as a way to learn more about the country and its politics . running for bogota runs 51 minutes . the film is in spanish with english subtitles and in english . it is not rated but would be pg for mature themes and would be fine for kids old enough to be interested . 
let's see , you're a filmmaker looking for a documentary subject that can have a catchy title about something that everyone is curious about but that only a minority fully understands . you should choose the world wide web , of course . there must be a cornucopia of fascinating people hanging out there in cyberspace whom you could interview . having a topical idea for a movie , however , is not necessarily the same as having a good one or having one that you know how to turn successfully into a motion picture . this criticism would be less relevant if home page were a better-constructed documentary or if justin proved an interesting person to interview . but neither is the case . the documentary is so poorly lit that the images are frequently indecipherable and background sounds sometimes drown out the speakers . the average home movie is of better quality . " what do you think of what i'm shooting ? " he inquires of his disinterested spouse . " i'm not looking for intense melodrama . " and he certainly doesn't find it . the fatal blow in home page comes when you realize that the title is only a pretext to interview the people in the movie , and they just aren't compelling characters . about the only connection to the web , other than random quotes from so-called experts , is watching people enter raw html code into computers -- easily , one of the most boring endeavors in modern life and one that has been rendered unnecessary by modern software anyway . home page goes on way too long at 1 : 43 . it is not rated but would be an r for nudity , profanity and drug usage and would be acceptable for older teenagers . 
columbia pictures , in their infinite wisdom , probably think they have found just the right high concept movie with cruel intentions to bring in those plentiful teen dollars . they have made another film adaptation of the french novel , " les liaisons dangereuses , " for what seems like the millionth time , but with a highly marketable twist . they have cast it with young heartthrobs , which will undoubtedly fill the theaters with teenagers looking for guilty pleasures , not that they will find many . that the movie is actually one big tease shouldn't be a problem . they hope to bluff the young target audiences by having the actors do little more than talk incessantly and foully about sex . if he fails , kathryn gets his prized antique sports car . the casting sounds better than it turns out thanks to roger kumble's lackluster writing and directing . ( it's a good thing that there aren't laser disks with 747 pilots giving how-to lessons . who would have ever guessed it possible to make this story as flat as sebastian's bed and as lifeless as the stone figurines that stand stoically outside the lavish valmont mansion ? the only character that sporadically works is that of kathryn , played by sarah michelle gellar , last seen delightfully in simply irresistible . " my advice is to sleep with as many men as possible . " as sebastian , ryan phillippe looks the part but never acts it . never convincingly evil , he should have been replaced by someone who could be nasty enough for us to hate . he comes closer to boring us to death than enraging us , no matter how many kinky sexual acts he gets to discuss . even when given juicy lines -- " i'm tired of sleeping with these insipid manhattan debutantes . there's nothing that can shock them anymore . " -- his heart never seems in it . when sebastian should be coldly calculating , ryan reduces him to merely being cold . typical of the movie is its music . rather than forming images of evil seduction in our minds , the jarring , staccato sounds are rather like a form of water torture . drip , drip , drip , the music pulses to the same excruciatingly slow pace as the film . relief finally comes in the form of ending credits . it is rated r for strong sexual dialogue and sexual situations involving teens , profanity and drug use . the film would be acceptable only for the oldest and most mature teens . 
writer and director carlos saura's tango , this year's oscar nominated foreign film from spain , is a disappointment in just about every dimension -- think flashdance without the flash or drama . tango is two movies , a languid romance that happens off the dance floor and a lackluster dance film , with its the singularly uninspired choreography . rather than sizzle , the best the dancers ever achieve is a small smolder . in a year in which some wonderful foreign films such as thomas vinterberg's the celebration were not nominated , why tango got a nomination remains a mystery . recent pictures like dance with me and even the much maligned but energetic the tango lesson show how naturally dance and film go together . saura's tango , on the other hand , is remarkably flat and lifeless . so much is wrong with tango that it is hard to know where to start discussing it . when the characters aren't dancing , the movie is doa . the scene plays like the cinematic retread that it is . the tango , described as " one body with four legs , " with its carefully controlled , limited movements is made to look easy and trivial . whereas most dance films develop appreciation among the audience for the dances , this one makes the dances feel like they're being done in slow motion . a tango can and should be exciting , the opposite of this film . still , the dances are preferable to the rest of the story . " what a lot of nonsense , " mario says at one point . i couldn't have said it better . tango runs way too long at 1 : 45 . it is rated pg-13 for sensuality and a little profanity and would be fine for kids around 10 and up . 
in order to remove any possible doubt about its approach , the corruptor opens with an explosion loud enough to test the theater's audio system . with never a subtle moment and few believable ones , the movie in its next scene introduces us to the story's hero , a vicious cop named nick chen , played by chinese action star yun-fat chow . this is but one of many times the movie requires a large suspension of disbelief . the two leads demonstrate little chemistry , and their love/hate relationship is never believable . robert pucci's script , involving gang warfare and police corruption , is an absolute mess . even if you forgive the story's incomprehensibility and its lack of credibility , the action is just a rehash of a hundred other movies . the director gives his actors big , noisy guns , puts them on opposite ends of the frame and lets them fire away . in one long , tedious car chase , in which scores of innocent bystanders are slaughtered in order to clear or block the speeding cars' path , your reaction is likely to be " yeah , sure . " excessive in every way imaginable , the movie feels more like a gory video game than a motion picture . with stupefying violence , the bad guys and what goes for good guys , annihilate each other . you may find yourself looking on the armrest for the joystick . and you may hope that your quarter will run out soon . the corruptor runs a long 1 : 51 . it is rated r for strong violence , sex , nudity and profanity and would be acceptable only for older teenagers . 
antonia bird's ravenous argues convincingly for vegetarianism . most of the film is little more than an adult version of a teen slasher flick , but some of the staging is imaginative . anthony b . richmond's cinematography gives the picture a sharp and handsomely startling look . michael nyman's quirky music does its best to transform the gruesome drama into a black comedy . if you go , whatever you do , don't stand near the exits . if you do , you will be in danger of being crushed by walkouts who are heading for the bathrooms . and if you are crushed to death , consider what might be your fate when those who like the movie see you dead on the floor . it's not a pretty picture . it is rated r for considerable gore , strong violence and brief nudity and would be acceptable only for older teenagers . 
the artwork in the living museum argues convincing that mental instability and impressive art can go hand in hand . he compares the artistic results favorably with pieces on display in prestigious galleries like the whitney . even if the art is striking , the documentary by previous oscar winner jessica yu ( breathing lessons : the life and work of mark o'brien ) isn't . she divides the movie into chapters with one for each patient/artist , but the interviewees all speak in dull monotones . the intent is always clear . the living museum is the sort of good intentioned film that critics don't like to criticize . it's easier to offer a few meaningless platitudes and be done with it . as much as i enjoyed the three jessica yu short films i've seen before this one , the living museum is never compelling . the art it displays is interesting , but the interviews aren't . the people are all slightly quirky , as you would expect , but they drone so much that i never felt involved . perhaps as a tightly edited short , it would have worked , but as a feature length movie , it is dreadfully dull . it is not rated but would be pg for brief nudity and some sexuality and would be fine for kids old enough to be interested . 
the two of them , who evidence no chemistry on the screen , go through the motions , but not the emotions , of an affair . they are careful to tell each other " i love you , " but they never convince each other , much less the audience . isabelle huppert creates her rich businesswoman character as a complete enigma . vincent martinez's acting isn't much better . he plays an uncaring rogue , who isn't interesting enough to detest . since the only reason she pays him to live with her is for the sex , you'd think the sex would be erotic and exciting , but it is incredibly bland . the script by jacques fieschi , based on a novel by yukio mishima , has exactly one " surprise , " but it is so obviously telegraphed that it is an insult to the viewers' intelligence . don't be surprised if your audience yells out at the screen . after the setup , the movie quickly gets as stale as a week-old croissant . " no man will ever give you what you want , " quentin complains to dominique . since she reveals so little about herself , quentin is probably right . spending the entire movie staring off into space , she certainly doesn't give the audience what it wants with her cold and aloof performance . the film is in french with english subtitles . it is rated r for sex , nudity , profanity and dope smoking and would be acceptable for older teenagers . 
continuing in the bad tradition of stretching animated television shows into full-length movies , doug's 1st movie is the latest incarnation . with the vast number of mediocre kids' television series still left to be " adapted " for the big screen , the mind boggles at what our kids will probably be offered at the theaters in the next few years . although there are marvelous films like a bug's life and the prince of egypt , most of what the studios send to the theaters these days is the cinematic equivalent of elevator music -- terminally bland but with just enough familiar parts to keep you from falling asleep . although doug's real life has its limitations , he has a vivid dream life . what that quote means , i have no idea , but we do see him dressed as such . the dance turns out to be merely a subplot . herman , looking a like stuffed , powder blue version of barney , is a creature more likely to hug you to death than scare you . there are a few , a very few , bits of nice humor in the story . another has the superhero version of doug make a big monster regurgitate by showing him a " mushy teen " television series . ( showing him this movie might provoke a similar reaction . ) the colorful animation has little detail in the drawings , making it look like something that was quick and easy to slap together , but the credits , which run almost as long as the movie itself , suggest otherwise . with a thin story as flat as the animation , one can only hope that doug's 1st movie will be his last . doug's 1st movie runs 1 : 15 . it is rated g and has nothing objectionable for any age . my son jeffrey , almost 10 , said he gave the movie * * * because he likes the television series . he liked the way the movie made him wonder what was going to happen next . his buddy nickolas , almost 10 , said he hadn't seen the show and didn't care much for the movie or doug . he gave it * * . 
if it's halloween , if there's a serial killer on the loose and if you realize that you haven't seen your parents around the house for a few days , worry . and if you're screenwriters like terri hughes and ron milbauer who think a movie full of old fashioned buckets of gore is still fun so long as it's another parody like scream , worry . genres can be so run into the ground that each one becomes more tedious than the last . idle hands , yet another teen horror comedy , has all the old jokes you've seen before , recycled one more time . let's do a horror movie check list to make sure that hughes and milbauer covered all their bases . check . check . check , check , and check . check . check . check . etc . , ad nauseam . the basic set up for this horror flick involves anton's possessed hand that kills and kills again . with slapstick worthy of a vaudeville routine , we watch his good and bad hands fight . trying its best to gross out the audience , the film runs through all of the old horror tricks and tries a few new ones . the best -- or worst of these depending on your point of view -- is microwaving the bad hand as we watch its skin slowly explode , spewing blood all over the microwave . you can probably guess where the knitting needles will end up . the story's gore quickly becomes tiresome . worse is the piece of advice that pnub offers what will undoubtedly be a heavily teen audience , the prime market for these horror flicks . now , there's a message more insidious than the movie's massive violence . it is rated r for massive gore , drug usage , sex , nudity and profanity and would be acceptable only for older teenagers . 
stephen sommers , the writer and director of last year's universally panned deep rising , is back again . this time he unleashes a cinematic plague on his audiences with the mummy , a lame indiana jones wannabe . a remake in name only of the 1932 boris karloff classic , the mummy features a host of gross and frightening special effects . the movie never figures out what it wants to be when it grows up . it is alternately : a parody , an adventure , a horror movie and an old fashioned b movie . they should have waited for a better script and director . sommers's script , which is filled with logical gaps , is so confusing that you begin to wonder if the print has missing hieroglyphic subtitles . certainly the story can be exasperatingly baffling , as if it were not intended that mere mortals should be able to follow it . the only potentially promising part of the movie is the casting of brendan fraser as rick . fraser , who has delivered strong performances in every film he has made until now , isn't the least bit interesting in the mummy . if any of the characters were worth caring about or possessed any depth , the story might have a chance . but the script plays like an outline that was never filled in . a few parts of the movie do come alive with a little spark of intelligence . the beauty of this seemingly mixed up line is that it is precisely what she means . " we are in very serious trouble . " and so are you if you're unlucky enough to find yourself stuck in a theater playing this movie . the picture deserves its own mummification . the mummy runs too long at 2 : 08 . it is rated pg-13 for gross and frightening images that will scare kids prone to nightmares . for those with strong stomachs , the film would be acceptable for those 12 and up . 
and they're characters in a new romantic comedy . no , this isn't the movie notting hill . not even close . the hopeless and uninvolving script by rafa russo does have shades of notting hill and sliding doors , but director mar ? a ripoll's twice upon a yesterday has a few things lacking -- romance and humor being just two of the missing ingredients . also missing in action are any characters that you care about . and , with the male looking so undesirable , it's hard to see how they could . their love affair doesn't have a genuine moment . the director tries to compensate with dramatic music and artful lighting , but it doesn't help . these artistic tricks actually make it worse since they draw attention to the fundamental lameness of the story . one suspects the film is supposed to be a romantic comedy , but , if so , they forgot to include anything funny . perhaps they should have tried a laugh track along with the dramatic violin music . at least that would have introduced some laughter into this laughless comedy . ultimately the movie asks whether altering the past will enable us to obtain the future we want . a good question perhaps , but this lifeless cast gives us no reason to care about the answer . twice upon a yesterday runs mercifully just 1 : 32 . it is rated r for a little sex , profanity and nudity and would be acceptable for teenagers . 
in a movie that never rings true , martha is the most unbelievable character of the lot . with fashion model looks , make-up , clothing and jewelry , martha doesn't appear to have ever come any closer to poverty than an overcharged american express platinum card . " all of my life i was told that if i worked hard and stayed out of trouble , my life would be a fairy tale . " fiennes isn't given much to do other than mope around with a single sad sack expression . still , his dour look is so exceedingly handsome it almost makes up for his character's lack of energy . he likes nothing better than showing off his crude behavior by obscene verbal jousting with his buddies . or more precisely , himself " with breasts . " as ploddingly directed by nick hamm , the movie is a romance without much genuine chemistry and a comedy without any laughs . best viewed as a small , melancholic drama , the by-the-numbers story takes few chances . why couldn't the writer introduce some ambiguity and real mystery into the tale and not make the outcome so obvious ? the movie's saving grace , to the extent it has any , is a nice but completely predictable conclusion . the ending's few fun twists add a little spice to an otherwise bland film . the very thought of you runs 1 : 28 . it is rated r for profanity and would be acceptable for teenagers . [we saw the film abroad without the aid of an mpaa rating and suspected , incorrectly , that it was a pg-13 film . ] my son jeffrey , age 10 , didn't think much of the movie , giving it just * 1/2 . he didn't like frank's language and found the story confusing at times . 
that's about as funny as inspector gadget ever gets . disney's new live-action movie pins all of its hopes for laughter on such sight gags . as the gadget-laden hero , inspector gadget , poor matthew broderick is stuck yet again in a movie in which he delivers an awkward performance in an underwritten role . broderick invests little emotional energy in the part of a guy whose reconstructed body is a collection of gadgets and gizmos . the quality of a script is usually inversely proportional to the number of writers , and this screenplay is no exception . the dialog packs no punch whatsoever , leaving the physical comedy alone to carry the picture . the one-joke movie consists of having inspector gadget , a kid's version of robocop , demonstrating all of his hardware . the result is a movie with a laugh count of maybe one or two small chuckles . as written , was the project doomed ? perhaps not . consider , for a minute , what it might have become with brendan fraser . willing to risk looking completely ridiculous , fraser usually dazzles us with his comedic bravado . still , even the usually reliable rupert everett , who plays the movie's villain , claw , doesn't show much spark in his acting . there is one undeniably enjoyable part of the production . it doesn't last long . it is rated pg for wacky violence/action , language and innuendo and would be fine for kids of all ages . my son jeffrey , age 10 , gave the movie * * 1/2 , complaining that it didn't have enough action , comedy or mystery . his buddy nickolas , age 10 , gave the film * * * . he thought the movie needed more action , but he really liked the talking car in it . 
and when sandler says anything , it means exactly that . do anything you want without any regard to whether it hurts you or others . it doesn't . the movie shamelessly tries to shock you -- from the unexpected , big gay kiss to the vomit scene so realistic that you can see the exact contents of julian's most recent meal . the sadistic movie has sonny showing julian how to have fun by tripping speeding rollerbladers with a stick . in the movie's signature comedy routine , sonny teaches julian how to urinate in public . the movie's most egregious action has sonny taking julian for a late morning breakfast at mcdonald's . if you don't get exactly what you want in life , when you want it , the movie wants us to feel empowered to demean those who've had the bad luck to cross our paths . the humor generally is on the level of laughing about whether julian can wipe his own rear . some jokes are funny , even if barely . " what is it ? " the movie , which celebrates bad behavior , will undoubtedly have audiences composed largely of 9-14 year olds , as was ours . the marketing of the movie is clearly aimed at that group . the tearjerker ending tries to eradicate the teachings of the rest of the movie with a big message that you should call your father up and tell him that you love him . it doesn't fly . nice sentiment , but much too late . it is rated pg-13 for language and some crude humor . the film is acceptable for teenagers but questionable for those much younger . my son jeffrey , age 10 , loved the film and gave it * * * 1/2 , saying it really cracked him up . except for the throwing up and spitting , he liked it all . 
like a cook who uses only leftovers , hollywood , once its finds a hit formula , keeps looking for ways to reblend the same basic ingredients . when they've exhausted the sequel approach , they look for variations on the same recipe . speed was a gigantic hit , so how about movie in which the threat is a chemical weapon that goes lethal above 50 degrees ? blend this using the tried and true buddy formula . sprinkle in lots of action and explosions . or so warner brothers hopes in hugh johnson's chill factor starring cuba gooding , jr . and skeet ulrich . he shows up to steal the substance -- it's called elvis so the script can make lots of jokes -- from dr . long . drew gitlin and mike cheda's hackneyed script is likely to draw groans as it constantly insults the audience's intelligence . the director's cliched staging includes bathing the bad guys in constant heavy dark shadows and the good guys in bright lights . " we all know what we have to do , so let's do it , " he says in a bit of inspiration that has them locking and loading . " it's not such a bad place . i know . i was there . " the movie has more than enough logical holes for a whole fleet of ice cream trucks to drive through , which is what mason and arlo ( gooding ) use to get elvis away . the director loves this part as it provides lots of opportunities for blowing up things like tanker trucks and creating demolition derby style accidents . brynner's people , besides being surprisingly bad shots , make one bad decision after another . some of the stunts are fun . watching mason and arlo , like butch cassidy and the sundance kid , jump thousands of feet to the river below is exhilarating . in chill factor they put them in a metal boat for the jump to slightly disguise the rip-off of another picture . poor cuba gooding , jr . , as he did in instinct earlier this summer , plays one half of a strong two person lead in an otherwise preposterous and ridiculous movie . as mason and arlo yell and bicker with each other , there are a few nice laughs . too bad their characters are stuck in such an otherwise awful movie . " excuse me , i've got a bullet in my leg , " mason barks back . mildly humorous comedy , however , cannot makeup for such a ludicrous rehash of a movie . chill factor runs 1 : 42 . it is rated r for violence and language and would be fine for teenagers who don't have squeamish stomachs . 
let me answer the question that is on the mind of every viewer who has seen writer/director rand ravich's the astronaut's wife : is the movie really in slow motion as it appears ? no . but , the zombie-like movements so carefully mastered by the story's leads , johnny depp and charlize theron , make it seem that the projectionist is running the movie at one-quarter speed . the story , which essentially reveals almost everything from the beginning , makes it obvious that aliens have visited him during this communication blackout . the scene itself somehow shifts in mid-thrust to their bedroom . the story is rife with many such illogical and implausible happenings . at least the party does provide an opportunity for some much needed humor in a movie that , given the hackneyed quality of the material , takes itself way too seriously . " i used to be into aids , " one emaciated socialite tells jillian . shot in shadows with heavy tones of dark wood paneling and deep blues , the film tries its best to look convincing . the script certainly needs all of the help it can get . the film , which is as inert as outer space , uses choral music full of over-the-top creepiness to supply most of the fright factor . johnny depp , in one of his lesser performances , still manages to be the only even partially satisfying aspect to the movie . jillian's hairdo ? short like mia farrow's . you know , like in rosemary's baby . cute , huh ? you don't need any more clues . it is rated r for violence , language and a strong scene of sexuality and would be acceptable for teenagers . 
if imitation is the sincerest form of flattery , then the sixth sense , the surprise hit of the summer , should feel honored by stir of echoes since the stories are like fraternal twins . both have frightening , horror picture elements and both feature a young boy who communicates with dead people . stir of echoes , which by comparison might more aptly be titled no sense , insults the viewers' intelligence at every turn . writer and director david koepp falls back on every clich ? in the book to advance the storyline . the overly serious movie will likely have you laughing out loud at some of the film's ridiculously implausible and downright silly parts . in contrast to haley joel osment's brilliant performance as the boy in the sixth sense , zachary david cope gives a loquacious but emotionless performance as jake witzky , a 5-year-old " receiver . " it's an embarrassingly bad , over-the-top performance for an actor as good as bacon . there's even the equivalent of a receiver's anonymous meeting to which tom is invited . too bad he doesn't go ; it could have supplied some much-needed levity . " come on , what's the worst that can happen ? " a lot it turns out . the movie's best line mixes tom's notorious wandering eye with his current predicament . " what exactly don't you understand ? " for viewers the list of things they don't understand would be long . at the top of such list of conundrums might be why he would choose to fill his refrigerator completely full of nothing but dozens of large containers of orange juice ? even if it's not quite as bad as the haunting , which established the low point for this year's horror flicks , stir of echoes would be better saved for video , when you can keep your finger on the fast-forward button in order to skip the more preposterous incidents . actually , skipping it all would be a better strategy entirely . it is rated r for violence , sexuality and language and would be acceptable for most teenagers . 
it stars a famous , gorgeous foreign actress ( juliette binoche ) who boldly appears quite unattractive . it features unhappy and unsympathetic characters whose actions dare you to like them , but whose circumstances are so dire that you feel guilty if you don't . finally it has a director who figures that , if he doesn't proceed with excruciating slowness , you will not appreciate the gravity of the characters' situations and the importance of the material . in short , it's the high-minded type of film that will have those less dedicated filmgoers heading for the exits before the first 15 long minutes have elapsed . to be fair the actors try hard , perhaps too hard , and the images , especially those of the steel-gray parisian twilight , are handsomely filmed . with a patch over one eye , a cut and bruised lip and a splotchy complexion , binoche's normally striking beauty is completely masked . mich ? le and alex strike up an almost instant friendship and like nothing better than swigging cheap wine from identical large bottles until they obtain the desired degree of inebriation . with realistic background sounds and little dialog , the movie has the feel of a documentary . it's hard to criticize a picture like this with its lofty intentions , but it is even harder to sit through it all . this much can be said , the director does make living an indigent and alcoholic life look pretty unappealing . the problem is that in the process he makes watching the movie just as undesirable . the movie is in french with english subtitles . it is rated r for violence , language , sexuality/nudity and substance abuse and would be acceptable for teenagers only if they are older and mature . 
it stars a famous , gorgeous foreign actress ( juliette binoche ) who boldly appears quite unattractive . it features unhappy and unsympathetic characters whose actions dare you to like them , but whose circumstances are so dire that you feel guilty if you don't . finally it has a director who figures that , if he doesn't proceed with excruciating slowness , you will not appreciate the gravity of the characters' situations and the importance of the material . in short , it's the high-minded type of film that will have those less dedicated filmgoers heading for the exits before the first 15 long minutes have elapsed . to be fair the actors try hard , perhaps too hard , and the images , especially those of the steel-gray parisian twilight , are handsomely filmed . with a patch over one eye , a cut and bruised lip and a splotchy complexion , binoche's normally striking beauty is completely masked . mich ? le and alex strike up an almost instant friendship and like nothing better than swigging cheap wine from identical large bottles until they obtain the desired degree of inebriation . with realistic background sounds and little dialog , the movie has the feel of a documentary . it's hard to criticize a picture like this with its lofty intentions , but it is even harder to sit through it all . this much can be said , the director does make living an indigent and alcoholic life look pretty unappealing . the problem is that in the process he makes watching the movie just as undesirable . the movie is in french with english subtitles . it is rated r for violence , language , sexuality/nudity and substance abuse and would be acceptable for teenagers only if they are older and mature . 
writer and director audrey wells's guinevere suffers from a paucity of ideas . after setting up the plot of an older man becoming the mentor and lover to a lolita-style character just beyond the age of consent , wells has trouble finding ways to make the predictable story interesting and to give her characters any credibility or depth . the result is a film that is as dull as dishwater . having just left a screening ( romance by catherine breillat ) in which the filmmaker took great risks but failed spectacularly , i found that even that film was in some ways preferable to guinevere . at least breillat tried . wells , on the other hand , makes a movie that's as inert as outer space . better to swing at the ball than just stare at it with the hope that the pitcher will walk you . guinevere , except for a few random scenes that are sharply written , quickly becomes tedious . one of the good scenes , which pales in contrast to similar ones in american beauty , happens at the sloane's dinner table . this turns out to be a tradition . " you take pictures when it hurts so bad you can't stand it any more , " he instructs her -- an example of the film's typically stilted dialog . " you know what we need ? what we really need here is some fun . " and so does the audience . needless to say , the fun does not materialize . " you call me if anything happens , " billie says towards the end . my sentiments exactly . i'll be in the lobby . it is rated r for strong language and sexuality and would be acceptable for older teenagers . 
romance by writer/director catherine breillat is described in the press notes as " a daring exploration of female sexuality from a female point of view . " featuring an order of magnitude more explicit sex than any movie this side of a porn film , the graphic depictions are as joyless and unerotic as a medical textbook . even if breillat has her actors performing actual , not simulated , oral sex , she does it with such a clinical detachment that the only reason to applaud the film is for the risks it is willing to take . making it especially hard to endure , romance's energy level is as low as its depressed heroine's . certainly we have had a large number of movies than explore violence with graphic realism , so why can't similar ones be made with sexual realism ? after all , we as a society are much more threatened by violence than sex . whereas there is a case that can be made for making something this sexually explicit , this movie fails spectacularly . the heroine is one notch above an automaton , thanks to the remoteness of the director's approach . in an excessively serious picture that is never intentionally funny , these scenes of ropes and chains and marie's contorted positions may have some laughing out loud , since they are so ludicrous . he's a good listener . he has other boasts too , all equally bizarre . if you're inclined to check this movie out only because of the titillation factor , don't . there isn't an exciting moment to be found in it . on the contrary , monasteries might be advised to hold recruiting drives in the lobbies . if sex is this miserable , abstinence may be an attractive alternative . the film is in french with english subtitles . the movie , which was not submitted to the mpaa for rating , is filled with actual sex scenes and frequent nudity and would not be appropriate for anyone other than an adult . 
a putative comedy that includes all the well-worn sport clich ? s , it tries hard to be a poignant tale as well about the bleakness and hardships of living in the far north . at neither a comedy nor a drama does it come close to succeeding . even in the obligatory big game ending , the movie fails miserably . containing one of the most poorly filmed hockey sequences you could imagine , it manages to be both confusing and boring . director jay roach , whose only other film credits are the austin powers series , seems as lost with the material as if he wandered off into a blizzard . mystery , alaska is so clumsily directed that it gives support for those who say that the real director of the austin powers movies was the star himself , mike myers . " i suggest we cling to them both . " typical of what passes for humor in the movie is a scene in the locker room in which the coach , the town's sheriff , tells the players , " you guys know what you're made of ! " the film's r rating stems mainly from sexual humor that is included , one supposes , as a way to juice up the script . too bad . released as a pg-13 film , they could attract preteen set , which might have lower standards as to what constitutes comedy . so is anything funny ? yes . i will not give either away since the names of these individuals , not the script , provide most of the laughs . it is rated r for language and sexuality and would be acceptable for teenagers . 
every other week of late brings another generic teen comedy to our local movie theaters . with interchangeable plot points and photogenic young actors , most of them share the same remarkable blandness . this week's entry is john schultz's drive me crazy . lamer than most , it does manage to rise above the worst of the genre , flicks such as the unbearable jawbreaker . in my generation it was silly surfer movies that the studios put out by the dozens in order to attract those lucrative teen audiences , flush with cash and ready to spring for lots of refreshments at the concession stand . the latest slew of teen movies is no worse than the old surfer ones and no better . think of them all as representative of a class of movies that are the cinematic equivalent of elevator music . they pass the time and rarely offend . drive me crazy takes place at a high school about to celebrate its centennial year , which means -- are you sitting down ? -- the movie will end in a -- surprise ! -- big prom . there have been so many proms this year that one feels underdressed in the theater without a tux or a prom dress . to make it look genuine , he'll have to get cleaned up , and they'll have to act like they're an item . well , duh ! and will there be several scenes of underage drinking and binging ? being considered a loser , dave , you can be sure , will eventually be fixed up by the script with a gorgeous girl as his compensation . the completely predictable and uneventful story ends with a small twist that would have provided a good starting point for a more substantial comedy . but it might have demanded some intelligence on the part of the viewers , something rob thomas's significantly underdeveloped script avoids like the plague . this much can be said . even if their acting in this movie isn't much , hart and grenier seem to be having a good time . too bad the same can't be said of most of the audience . drive me crazy runs 1 : 34 . it would be acceptable for most teenagers . 
satoshi kon's perfect blue gives an entirely new meaning to the term " cartoon violence . " featuring multiple realistic rapes , gory stabbings , mutilations , sex and full-frontal nudity , this animated feature from japan hails from the brian de palma school of excess . needless to say , it's not for kids . and i would go further to argue that it's not for most adults either since it's level of writing is beneath them . sadayuki mura's script , which is dubbed into english , might not have been so ridiculous in its native language , but one suspects it was . this style of japanese animation is called " anime , " and perfect blue is the first example of that art form that i can remember seeing . whether this one is typical or not i cannot say , i am only reviewing this particular film and not the genre . although the drawing in perfect blue is colorful , it is as flat and lifeless as a typical saturday morning television cartoon . the action is created mainly by panning the camera across the canvas and making some of the characters' lips move slightly . the resulting two-dimensional look is particularly uninviting . the story is told with the old trick of sequences that look real but which turn out to be fantasies and vice versa . if mima wasn't such a twit , one might have been able to care about her some . there is probably an audience for perfect blue , but i can't figure out what the demographics would be . it's too dumb for adults and too violent for kids . it is not rated but would be an r for strong violence , rape , gore , strong sexuality and nudity . it would be acceptable for teenagers only if they are older and mature . 
the slightly effeminate brandon likes doing all those manly things such as hanging out at bars hitting " on " the gals and " at " the guys . with her deeply-sunken cheeks , wide toothy smile and lanky look , swank appears decidedly male , although not at all like the other guys in the movie . the men in the story have long , dirty-looking , shaggy hair and scraggly beards . boys don't cry has little to recommend it other than that it's based on a true story . the horrific ending means that brandon teena deserves our sympathy , but it does not follow that the film dramatization based on her life's story is worthwhile . " i hate my life , " lana says in the story's biggest understatement . lana's family -- the type that used to be called poor white trash -- seem to spend all their waking hours with a cigarette in one hand and a beer bottle in the other . the long first part of the movie has nothing of interest , save watching how brandon copes with being a female in men's clothes . the ending , which lasts an almost unbearable half hour , shamelessly manipulates our emotions . director kimberly peirce has a toddler run screaming through the worst of the mayhem , just to make sure we are completely disgusted with the level of unspeakable violence before us . if the first part had given brandon some realistic characters to interact with , the excessively long ending might have been tolerable and , possibly , even meaningful . as it is , the movie just leaves you with a gut wrenching feeling . rather than being moved , you just feel sick . boys don't cry runs 1 : 56 . it is rated r but should be nc-17 for gang rape , strong violence , nudity , language and drug use . it is not appropriate for teenagers . 
rob reiner's the story of us , starring bruce willis and michelle pfeiffer , could have been more aptly titled scream were that name not already taken . ( you may want to bring earplugs , these two angry spouses can get awfully loud . ) watching these two attractive actors verbally slug it out is about as much fun as experiencing your own divorce . with its choppy editing , the film's images fly by like a music video , destroying the effect of many scenes which on their own contain little gems of truth . the story of their arguments is frequently interrupted -- actually the whole movie feels like one long interruption -- by visits to various analysts and marriage counselors . since neither child has a hearing problem , this becomes very hard to believe . perhaps one of the secrets is that the kids appear to spend all summer , every summer , at camp . between his film's emotional outbursts , director reiner , working from a script by alan zweibel and jessie nelson , tosses the audience the opportunity for a few cheap laughs . they might be laughs , if we were in the mood . there's nothing wrong , of course , with downer pictures like this one , assuming the story has honesty and insight , something sorely lacking in this picture full of missed opportunities . another example of the film's message-based humor comes from stan ( reiner ) . the story offers few insights into why they flare up like rockets at each other . after an hour and a half of misery , admittedly interlaced with memories of some of their good times , the story in the last few minutes has the characters make an abrupt change . completely out of left field , reiner sticks on a feel-good ending that rings completely false . admittedly , he telegraphs this in the first scene , but the body of the movie argues against the ending's huge copout . it feels like an ending devised by a test group who couldn't stand what was happening and demanded that the stars relent in the end . the story of us runs 1 : 32 . it is rated r for language and brief sexuality and would be acceptable for teenagers . 
martin scorsese's bringing out the dead might have been more aptly titled acting like the dead . the near comatose movie has a few scenes of black humor that work , but generally the story just drags until the ending credits finally put the film out of its misery . in the starring role , nicolas cage plays his usual crazy character , which varies only in the degree of the insanity . the movie makes their jobs look horrible and their resulting conduct seem a natural reaction to their environment . most of the film is an awkward blend of gritty , new york city realism and over-the-top black comedy . overlaid on the scenes are frank's pretentious musings . and " i was a great relief mop . it was enough that i just showed up . " ) paul schrader's meandering script is based on a joe connelly novel . the story's only completely satisfying sequence has frank continuing to try , without any success , to get himself fired . gore is everywhere , and frank's white shirt is usually polka dotted with blood splatters . the hospital is such a mad house that you'll feel like arresting the staff and the patients for disorderly conduct . the three manage to rise a little above the hackneyed level of the scripting . " it's been bad lately , but it's always bad , " frank says of the condition in the emergency room . the same could be said of most of the movie . it is rated r for gritty violent content , drug use and language and would be acceptable for teenagers who are both older and can handle horrific images . 
less than 5 minutes into the bone collector , the movie already has you laughing at the stupidity of one of the two leads . not a good omen . oh no , that would be too easy and not dramatic enough . sound like david fincher's seven ? with its gruesome crimes , the bone collector does possess many similarities -- the quality of the writing and direction , however , not being part of them . the bone collector , directed by phillip noyce ( the saint ) and scripted by jeremy iacone , is a preposterous and predictable movie that insults the viewers' intelligence every chance it gets . with angelina jolie's looks , how many men would take that advice ? the director's staging is infuriating with his blend of overly clever and clich ? d plot devices . rhyme doesn't have that same mobility , as we are constantly reminded . does this make any sense at all ? talking about a needle in the haystack ! the shamelessly manipulative story even falls back on the old child endangerment episode for some cheap thrills . don't waste your time guessing . the movie is one of those infuriating ones in which the solution to the mystery comes completely out of left field . denzel washington , who has demonstrated his considerable talents in many wonderful films ( including malcolm x and he got game ) , has sometimes even been able to save some mediocre ones . fallen , for example , would have been just a run-of-the-mill supernatural thriller without washington's efforts in it . no matter how hard he tries , however , even washington isn't able to save the bone collector from its hackneyed script and its ridiculous direction . it is rated r for strong violent content , including grisly images , and for language . the film would be acceptable for teenagers only if they are older and mature . 
honesty is always the best policy , so let me start with a confession . when it comes to pok ? mon , i just don't get it . the teenaged girl who sat next to me at our screening of pok ? mon the first movie : mewtwo strikes back acted like the teens did with the beatles when i was young . so what is the fascination ? this fad is much larger than previous ones like the teenage mutant ninja turtles and the power rangers . in an age of amazing graphics from toy story to the prince of egypt to star wars , why would kids be so mesmerized by flat two-dimensional images that barely move ? could it be that the story is so simple that it doesn't tax their minds , leaving them to be put into a trance by the repetitive images ? before the feature film , warner brothers is showing a twenty-minute short , pikachu's vacation . the purpose of a warm-up act is to get the audience energized and ready for the main feature . if that was their purpose this time , they failed miserably , as this short was probably the worst film that i've seen this year . like a cartoon for kids too young for teletubbies , there was no discernable plot . the characters floated by in relatively random fashion with the effect being that of a cinematic aquarium . even the pok ? mon aficionados with me found this one terminally stupid . it will probably produce a sleep-inducing effect on most adults , if it doesn't produce a gagging one . after this , anything had to be better . in the movie itself , the rare pok ? mon named mew is cloned into mewtwo -- " a real pok ? nstein . " at the end , a little message is thrown in as a way to suggest the movie has some larger purpose . " it is what you do with your life that determines who you are . " yes , more pok ? mon movies are on the way . i'm going to make a recommendation that i've never made before . you may not want to deny your children the pleasure of seeing it , but there's no reason whatsoever that you can't try to spare yourself from the ordeal . it is rated g and would be acceptable for all ages . all of the kids with me complained about how bad the twenty minute short was . the movie was another story entirely with all of them liking it , especially the graphics . my son jeffrey , age 10 , gave the movie * * * 1/2 , saying the movie was cool . his twin steven gave the picture * * * but complained that the sounds didn't seem right somehow and made him feel stressed . 
for moviegoers who think that the problem with today's cinema is its reliance on subtlety and its lack of gore , luc besson ( the fifth element ) has made just the movie for them , the messenger : the story of joan of arc , a movie so over the top that it could become a campy cult classic . in 8mm , joel schumacher was criticized for making a sleazy movie about a search for a snuff film . ( poor dental health is so conspicuously featured in the movie that you half expect a toothpaste product placement . ) to dramatically underscore the point that the english soldiers are like animals , we witness them before the rape pouring stew on the top of the dirty table so they can then eat off of it like dogs . like a bad horror movie , besson has the interior lit by huge flashes of lightning . her performance , which at first seems quite impressive , quickly becomes tediously repetitive . most of the movie consists of confusing battle scenes of hand-to-hand combat . frantically edited to match joan's spastic energy , the scenes are so full of gore that the mpaa should now retire the nc-17 rating . if they can give this movie an r , which they did , then there is no point any longer in pretending that the nc-17 rating even exists . besson shares the writing credits , if not exactly the honors , with andrew birkin , the author of such gems as king david . among the laughably bad lines is one uttered by the conscience ( dustin hoffman no less ) . for the messenger's audience , it is as soon as the ending credits begin to roll . the messenger : the story of joan of arc runs one hundred and forty one long minutes , but who's counting ? it is incorrectly rated r for strong graphic battles , a rape and language . it should be considered nc-17 and would be inappropriate for anyone less than a high school senior . sadly , there was an 8-year-old next to me and other kids even younger in our audience . 
" there was a stone where my heart should be . " the problem with writer/director neil jordan's remake of the end of the affair , based on the graham greene novel , is that this could easily be said about the movie itself . although jordan attempts an old fashioned cinematic weeper , what he gets instead are talented actors reciting their lines with all of the fervor of someone reading the phonebook . the camera studies the characters' faces in long close-ups , but they just look uncomfortable as if they were wearing hair shirt underwear . these pained expressions vary little , thus showing us how terminally unhappy everyone is . as the film opens in 1946 , maurice speaks to us in narration as he types , " this is a diary of hate . " there's another , more important mystery , but it is so easy to figure out that to say anything about it would give away its resolution . although the labored acting and prose give little hint that they have the slightest romantic interest in each other , they are soon found dining t ? te- ? -t ? te at a restaurant . " i'm in love with you , " he says as matter-of-factly as though commenting on the quality of the veal . " me too , " she replies just as blandly . ( the show keeps you waiting for an off-screen director to yell , " cut ! " and come on the screen to admonish his actors to show some emotional involvement in the material . ) and then there are the film's love scenes . oh , they're quite explicit when it comes to clothing , but the actors keep their passions fully covered . they grope each other in all the right places , but their movements look more like posturing , as if they were paid models at a sculpturing class . did i mention the time that maurice lies down to have sex with sarah without even loosening his tie ? and it gets even more complicated . throughout , ian hart is absolutely delightful , stealing scenes left and right as a meticulous and awkwardly serious investigator . hart even keeps a straight face , when he has to listen to such lugubriously silly lines like : " as long as fools like us love , your employment never ends . " filmed in such dark , gloomy tones by roger pratt , the movie frequently causes people's faces to be indecipherable . given the lack of variation in their expressions , this probably means the viewer misses little . even if the audience may not find the story particularly rewarding , one suspects that greene found it cathartic . one thing that can be said of the movie is that it makes marital infidelity seem so incredibly boring , sad and passionless that it makes a strong argument against adultery as not much fun and a complete waste of time . ( actually , everyone in the movie , married or not , appeared absolutely miserable , but that's another story . ) it is rated r for scenes of strong sexuality and would be acceptable for older teenagers . 
more aptly titled doa , were that name not already taken , flawless is an unappealing mess of a movie . written and directed by joel schumacher , whose last film was the sleazy 8mm , the movie has tonal problems from its gangster beginning to its madcap mayhem ending . sometimes it wants to be a gay comedy , other times it wants to pull your heart strings and still other times it wants to shock you with schumacher's signature violence . no matter what it tries , it rarely succeeds . best described as a comedic tragedy , the movie ladles on lots of attempted humor . it is the sort of movie that has one person -- in our audience it was the same one person -- laughing loudly and frequently , as the rest of the viewers watch stoically . de niro , turning in one of his most uninteresting performances ever , accurately portrays the speech patterns of his character but forgets to give him any life . the entire movie features labored acting whose presentation has the dullness of an old knife . although daniel orlandi's costumes are colorful , declan quinn destroys their effect with his grim and ugly cinematography -- more of the film's tonal problems . schumacher , who also gave us the abysmal batman & robin , can't seem to make up his mind whether he wants to make la cage aux folles or seven . whenever he throws in something fun , like the contrast between the conservatively-suited gay republicans and the flamboyant cross-dressers , schumacher feels compelled to destroy the moment . rather that just enjoy the visual delights of the situation , he writes rusty a diatribe against all republicans , even gay ones . none of this makes any difference because schumacher's narrative , or lack thereof , can't sustain the viewer's interest . there is no genuine chemistry between the two leads , and the movie never comes close to jelling . flawless runs 1 : 50 . it is rated r for pervasive language and strong violence and would be acceptable for older teenagers . 
too often writer/directors such as light it up's craig bolotin don't take the time to create a plausible plot and realistic dialog . instead , they go for exaggeration and hope for audiences who don't care . a few of its deficiencies would be credible , but the litany goes on way pass the level of plausibility . not seeming to have the usual dropout problem , this school has classes that are standing room only because of a lack of chairs . why she doesn't just walk out at the beginning , as most of the other students do , is never properly explained . although there are lots of threats with a gun , the script will soon teach us that it's not the kids' fault . if the writer had taken the time to create characters rather than caricatures , perhaps we could have cared . as it is , we're just glad that it's over with . it is rated r for language and violent content and would be acceptable for older teens . 
meaningless minutia . in the place of anything approaching a compelling narrative , rosetta's co-writers and co-directors luc and jean-pierre dardenne , ladle on the trivial like sugar on cereal . the directors , using artsy handheld cameras with lots of close-ups and fast blurry pans , show rosetta's miserable life with pseudo-realism . and do they ever show it in repetitive detail . we know , for example , precisely how rosetta cuts her toast . she uses long , slow vertical slices . most home videos are much more eventful and exciting . the story is so devoid of tension that you sit there hoping against hope that some horrible tragedy will befall rosetta so that the story will finally get in gear . ( in order to pass the time , one can reflect on how this movie has managed to show up on best and worst of the year lists from major critics . okay , so the reflection is more on how a critic could have stayed awake long enough to put it on a best list since the movie commits the cardinal cinematic sin -- it is excruciatingly boring . ) one of the film's themes explores the idea that job creation is a zero-sum game . the naivet ? of this whole economic argument is stunning . in a season in which movies are all trying to outdo each other in longevity , rosetta is a standard length film . but so little transpires , it feels longer than a three-hour epic . it is rated r for language and would be acceptable for teenagers . 
" here we are , caught in the gravitational pull of a blue giant , and all you can think about is sex , " troy larson ( peter facinelli ) says to danika lund ( robin tunney ) . amazingly , sex is indeed the theme of supernova , an incorrectly rated pg-13 science fiction film . laced with frequent nudity and scenes of floating naked bodies having sex , the movie cries out to be rated r . given the show's theme and its rating one can expect lots of kids under 13 to see it , as there were in my audience . with acting this lethargic , it's quite difficult , however , to see how editing could do much to change the quality of the picture for the better or the worse . the mine is on a moon that is so far off that the ship has to make a dimensional jump , sort of a leap through hyperspace , to get there . what is the one thing necessary to accomplish such a jump ? think of all of the fun that the millennium falcon's crew has been missing . featuring nothing less than " ninth dimension matter , " this mean little piece of plasma is -- surprise ! -- trouble . like the rest of the special effects in the film , which rely heavily on flashing lights and fog to create the atmospherics , the look of this devilish substance is cheap . but given the 10 minutes of credits at the end of the picture to the film's technical teams , one suspects that lots of the studio's money was wasted in the creation of these lame effects . one suspects that most of the people associated with this film will be filled with regret that they ever had anything to do with it . only briefly as a guilty pleasure for adults does the picture have anything to recommend it . it is rated pg-13 for sex , nudity and violence . it would be acceptable for older teenagers . 
giving her life a bizarrely saccharine , ozzie-and-harriet gloss , bergman turns the queen of sleaze into a literary heroine . and he makes her life so excessively cute and over-the-top fun that you may gag . at any minute you expect the cast to stop and ask the audience " is everybody happy ? " starring bette midler , as jacqueline susann , and nathan lane , as her husband and agent , irving mansfield , the movie , thanks to bergman's overdirection , manages to bring out the most annoying parts of each actor . although the movie is short , you'll find yourself secretly hoping for the obviously fatal conclusion -- susann is diagnosed early in the picture with cancer -- to occur much sooner than it does . filmed by karl walter lindenlaub with bright , peppy colors and scored by burt bacharach for maximum cloyingness , the film doesn't have a subtle moment . although jacqueline wrote about a world of sex and drugs , the movie provides no background on this . in the picture , jacqueline acts like a woman who sometimes talks dirty but who doesn't have any sins , save her tacky wardrobes . the only saving graces in the movie are two of the supporting cast , to whom writer paul rudnick ( in & out ) gives some of the few lines with any possibilities . stockard channing , as jacqueline's smart-mouthed friend flo , likes to tell it like it is . " oh come on , irving , " flo says , " reading never solved anything . " as her anal-retentive , brooks-brothers-dressed editor , michael , david hyde pierce gives a prissy performance that's cute at first , but it's a one joke idea . his slow transformation out of his regimented life is as predictable as the rest of the story . " talent isn't everything , " flo says . and the mere collection of a talented cast does not ensure that the movie can demonstrate any . isn't she great was probably a bad idea from the beginning , and nothing in this movie convinces us otherwise . it is rated r for language and would be acceptable for teenagers . 
the fundamental requirement of a director is that his actors should never appear to be such . the movie has many an interesting vignette , but never do his actors become flesh-and-blood characters . instead , the actors strut their stuff and show off their craft but nothing more . maybe it's because this play isn't suitable material for a motion picture , or maybe it's because warchus , whose background is as a stage director , doesn't understand the needs of the cinema . whatever the reason , simpatico just limps tediously along until the ending credits put it out of its misery . catherine keener , who can playing working-class types better than just about anyone , is cecilia , a payless store clerk , who is vinnie's girlfriend -- well , kind of . vinnie is such a filthy , no-account that it's hard to see how anyone could tolerate him for more than a few moments . lacking any sustained momentum , the movie just ends . just before the ending , the story interjects a completely predictable , but nevertheless ridiculous , little melodrama . it's the type of pseudo-tragedy that will leave you murmuring to yourself , " oh , come on ! " it is rated r for some strong sexuality and for language and would be acceptable for older teenagers . 
yawn . wes craven's scream series , famous for spoofing the teen slasher genre , has now with scream 3 completely degenerated into the type of movie that the series was setup to spoof . without a creative idea in sight , ehren kruger's script falls back on tired , blood-splattered gorefest clich ? s . written at the level of a lame sitcom , the movie produces barely a chuckle . set against the backdrop of the production of a fictional movie called stab 3 , the plot has few surprising twists . none of these show any spark in their acting , save indie queen parker posey , who plays her usual character of a smart-mouthed woman with an attitude . likewise , cameos , including those of carrie fisher and liev schreiber , are much more interesting than the rest of the blandly boring picture . be ready to have the world hate you ! " the speech obviously refers to the scream series itself . it's too bad that scream 3 never takes its own advice . remarkably devoid of edge , the movie just spends two hours running out the clock . the studio only permitted print critics to see this film in advance . online film critics had their invitations canceled at the last minute . ( since all of the print media have web sites , the differentiation is obviously silly . ) the fear was that we might reveal the film's ending a whole day or two in advance of the film's opening . as a protest , i am going to reveal the conclusion right here and now : frogs . yes , that's right . okay , so maybe it doesn't end quite that way , but you'll wish it did . the only scary part in the movie is that it clearly opens the door for a scream 4 . please nooooo ! scream runs 1 : 56 . the film is rated r for strong horror violence and language and would be acceptable for most teenagers . 
no , it's not the latest hot band . chris koch's snow day is a juvenile comedy that has a few nice moments , but it puts you to sleep more often than it tickles your funny bone . the poster boy for this lame farce would be the principal of the kids' school . he's an embarrassment to card-carrying adults . the sweetest guy in the movie and the biggest surprise is chevy chase as tom branston , the number three television weatherman in a three-station market . in a semi-serious role , rather than his usual cheesy part , chase generates a modest amount of genuine sympathy for his character . although his acting isn't much , at least it isn't his usual abysmal performance . the kids believe than the chains on his plow come from the braces of crushed children . the movie doesn't have many jokes that you haven't heard before . the script also features a smelly bunch of flatulent fat boy jokes -- boy , that's original . that's it . the picture has only one good laugh , and now you know it , leaving no reason to waste your money on the rest . it is rated pg for brief , mild peril and language and would be acceptable for most kids . my son jeffrey , age 10 , gave it * * 1/2 , liking randy the best . 
the planet is far from dead in this aliens meets the birds tale , but the movie itself is close to terminal . it isn't . the script by jim and ken wheat is full of such illogical moments , which fail any reasonable sanity test . i suppose i should have mentioned that the captain died in the crash , but in generic sci-fi movies like this one , the captain always dies in the crash , so i figured that you didn't need to be told . the aliens can function only in a pitch black environment , so guess what astronomical event is on the way in this land of perpetual sunshine ? talk about unlucky ! what a lucky coincidence ! this is a blessing in disguise . the movie has one redeeming feature -- its stunning cinematography . reasoning that the three suns would make for strange coloration , the cinematographer denudes the color and oversaturates the shots . with an effect similar to that in bound , the movie is told in shades of gray with only one or two other colors coming through . only the indoor scenes , lit by artificial light , have a more normal color palette . riddick , even if he is a cold-blooded killer , frequently occupies the high moral ground and is the bravest of all . he shoots up with a needle in his eye -- yes , the movie loves to gross us out as well as scare us with loud noises . as macbeth said about the film , or would have , if he'd been born a little later , " it is a tale told by an idiot , full of sound and fury , signifying nothing . " oh well , at least the picture's artistic look places it a notch above other such generic science fiction films as wing commander . pitch black runs 1 : 49 . it is rated r for language and sci-fi violence and gore and would be acceptable for most teenagers . 
enjoy the moment for this is about as funny as nick gomez's drowning mona ever gets . meant to be an agatha christie style mystery , the movie is constructed as a series of loosely-connected vignettes , frequently told in flashback and without much narrative drive or momentum . sometimes cute , the film has trouble ever working up to funny . jeff claims that his mom suffered from a " personality disorder " -- not exactly an original line . the running sight gag with him , not that it's funny , is his stump in place of a hand . although wyatt seems rather lackadaisically to be trying to solve the crime , others show no interest whatsoever . as wyatt's deputy ( peter dobson ) succinctly puts it , " ding , dong the witch is dead -- end of story . " like a firecracker that's packed with powerful ingredients but ends up just fizzling , the movie spurts along until the killer is rather arbitrarily chosen -- something that could be said of neve campbell's last picture ( scream 3 ) . have you ever wished that movies featuring a large cast would have everyone wear name tags so that you could remember the names ? most of the characters have their names on the vanity plates on their yugos . cute , huh ? it is rated pg-13 for some thematic elements , language and brief sexuality and would be acceptable for kids around 11 and up . 
but , like men buying " playboy " , he's only interested in looking at the pictures . other characters in the movie are dying to read the books . needless to say , boris isn't exactly telling him the full and complete truth about this antiquarian search . there is a lot of foul play afoot . the most surprising aspect of the movie , given the director , is that it isn't outlandish enough and lacks significant energy . a supernatural thriller that can put you to sleep with its plodding pacing is not exactly a recipe for success . johnny depp , who usually adds something special to any movie with which he's associated , phones in his part this time . acting remote and uninvolved , he goes through the motions but never gets involved emotionally with his character . the script bursts with clich ? d moments . " you don't know what you're getting into , mr . corso , " advises one of the book owners . " get out before it's too late ! " i tried thinking of any original scenes in the picture , but i couldn't recall a single one . the ending is lame and silly . this is especially infuriating since the only reason to sit through the entire movie is the almost academic interest as to exactly how the mystery will be resolved . the film is rated r for some violence and sexuality and would be acceptable for most teenagers . 
waking the dead has an unintentionally ironic title . with exceedingly bland acting by the leads , billy crudup and jennifer connelly , and lethargic directing by keith gordon ( a midnight clear ) , the movie is so comatose that audiences will want to shake it or do something to wake it up . people don't walk , they move at a glacial pace . and the camera zooms and pans with excruciating slowness as if its gears are frozen from shooting the film's many snow-covered scenes . the problem is that the plot's realization isn't the least bit convincing . never do fielding or sarah seem genuinely interested in any of their causes or aspirations . both show all of the emotive power of a stone . it isn't clear how fielding could get any votes , much less get elected . he is an empty suit without any issues or even a decent stump speech . at other times , they say the right words , but their vacant eyes show they are just reading their lines . " if anybody really knew kennedy , do you think they'd have ever voted for him ? " the movie takes the same reticent approach , giving us trite speeches but little more . i'd recommend that you vote against it . it is rated r for sexuality and language and would be acceptable for older teenagers . 
carlos ? vila's price of glory is the answer for those who think that the problem with bad television is that the screen is too small . with schmaltz so thick that you could cut it with a knife , this sappy tv movie-of-the-week is set to open in your local multiplex and not your living room . rushed along too quickly by an uncaring promoter , arturo ended up working " on a crappy assembly line " rather than enjoying the fruits of a championship career . the attractive women in the story provide the supporting wallpaper . they smile a lot and say encouraging things to their men . the real delight of the movie , since it provides so many unintentional laughs , is phil berger's heavily-clich ? d script . ( " the only one that can beat you is you . " " i want to talk to the man upstairs . " " do you think we've got a guarantee ? do you think any of us here have a guarantee ? " ) although i can't recall them ever saying , " be the best that you can be , " i suspect it was in the script but was removed in the final editing . the movie , unlike the recent , disastrous play it to the bone , ends in a reasonably decent big match . the outcome is never in doubt , but at least it is filmed invitingly and edited lucidly . the ending of price of glory isn't exactly memorable , but , compared to the rest of the movie , it is the only winning sequence . price of glory runs too long at 1 : 57 . it is rated pg-13 for violence , language and brief drug content and would be acceptable for teenagers . 
since james wong's final destination is a teen horror movie , one immediately sees the humorous irony in this advice , which occurs in the first few minutes of the story . needless to say , this isn't something you want to go screaming on a jumbo jet . of course , the plane crashes in a massive fireball . if you've ever been afraid to fly , this isn't the movie for you . actually , if you are currently okay with flying several miles up in the air in a long metal tube , you still may want to avoid the film since its images may not go away . the rest of the story is a traditional teen horror flick with severed heads and flying knives , but the plane crash is something else entirely . the director makes it seem entirely plausible and shockingly realistic . one problem that some viewers may have is that the details of the tragedy sound remarkably similar to real-life plane crashes . but , the problem that most viewers will have with final destination is that they have seen it all before . if you feel in the need for a generic teen horror film , there is no reason to choose this one over any of the others . the movie is at its best when it goes more for humor than shock . " i will not let this plane crash be the most important thing in my life ! " it won't be . it is rated r for violence , terror and language and would be acceptable for older teenagers . 
heavy on village minutia ( washing dishes , baking bread , riding motorbikes and playing boom boxes ) , the film lacks anything approaching a compelling narrative . the best that could be said of it is that , with its visual splendor , it could be dramatically trimmed down and made into a dynamite travelogue . the movie's central character is a gentle , 64-year-old kirgiz woman , who looks at least a decade older . the film generally eschews dialog and is composed instead with long silent sections involving simple village life , much like the documentary endurance . this can have a sleep-inducing effect on the audience . the miners , however , seem to be the happiest of all , so the message about progress destroying the local culture doesn't acquire much traction . american movies featuring animals are obliged to include a disclaimer in the closing credits stating that no animals were harmed during the making of the film . among the few scenes of any dramatic tension in the movie are a couple of sickening ones involving goats . to be fair , the documentary didn't cause these events to occur . it just recorded them . the film is in english and kirgiz with english subtitles . it is not rated but might be an r for the above-mentioned animal sequences . the film would be acceptable for teenagers . 
like the rest of gough lewis's sensationalized but shallow documentary , sex : the annabel chong story , her brave boast doesn't hold up under examination . the men either wore condoms or were hiv-tested porn stars , and annabel is just an exhibitionist who doesn't care much about anything other that getting attention . the documentary , however , tries with little success to paint a completely different portrait of annabel -- that of a modern-day feminist . like much of the story , the devil is in the details . unlike the thoughtful and insightful the girl next door about porn star stacy valentine , this documentary is built with one cheap shot after another . it even opens with the king of schlock , jerry springer . the movie is filled with such bad questions followed by even worse non-responses . " what sort of artistic statement were you making ? " perhaps my least favorite throw-away question is the one that the director asks grace's mother . guess , what ? there are many good questions that could have been asked . one was how grace , a woman with a horrible set of teeth , a modest body , no acting acumen and little to recommend her , ever made it in the porn business in the first place . another might be , what was it that attracted men enough to have them rent her tapes before the marathon sex session which brought her notoriety . this crude movie is more concerned with a quick buck , so such informative questions are avoided . the movie , which drones on and on , with one talking head after another , feels like it will never end . ( annabel's lack of credible acting ability really shows through in these scenes . ) one wonders if the director is trying to make the audience feel annabel's exhaustion during her sexual olympics , as he drags out his movie way past it's natural ending point . a little mirth in such a dull movie would have helped . it does , however , contain one extremely funny bit of self-deprecating humor . the male porn star of a movie called " the oral majority , " talks about annabel's sexual stunt . it is not rated but would be nc-17 for strong sex scenes and language . the film would not be acceptable for those under 19 . 
a concept alone does not a movie make . like a computer virus , the rumor spreads rapidly , harming more than the intended victim . that's the theory anyway . working from an underdeveloped and ridiculous script by gregory poirier and theresa rebeck , davis guggenheim directs gossip with meat cleaver subtlety . it's too bad that the director didn't throw up his hands and go for pure camp . the over-the-top , creepy music ( graeme revell ) and the ominously dark cinematography ( andrzej bartkowiak ) would have nicely supported such an approach . as those of you unlucky enough to have seen body shots last year will notice , the art design looks similar , right down to the silly , pastel cocktails , served in a rainbow of colors . as a parody , the film might have at least worked its way up to a guilty pleasure . but , it is not to be . the director buys into the pretentious and preposterous story , producing groans from the audience instead of laughter . in a film full of ludicrous moments , permit me to choose a favorite . the movie is filled with thoughts that will make your blood boil . " i don't even know what i'm doing , " travis says of his art . ( i forgot to tell you . the director might say the same of his movie , which he directs with plodding lethargy . but , if you have any doubt as to who or what killed the movie , wait for the ending . derision and catcalls are liable to fill the air in your theater as it did it ours during the ending scene . the script did it . it is rated r for sexual content , language and brief violence and would be acceptable for older teenagers . 
the last september is one of those inert period pieces that give art house films a bad name . wasting a talented cast that includes veteran actors maggie smith and michael gambon , director deborah warner has her actors strolling through the sets to the rhythm of the film's dreamy , melancholic music . as a short film without words , the movie might have worked , but as a full-length , talking motion picture , it is terminally boring . although this is warner's first feature film , she has an extensive background in opera direction , which shows . she places the actors statically within the frame as she might arrange an opera set with the singers , who normally move slowly , if at all . this background data is extremely helpful since the movie's message is buried by an avalanche of aristocratic small talk . little happens in the movie , other than the brief interruptions of the violence that takes place away from the house . at the center of the " story " -- calling it a drama or a romance would be a misnomer -- is sir richard's niece , lois farquar ( keeley hawes from the avengers ) . " i haven't , " hugo retorts . like a houseguest who doesn't take the hint that it's long past time to leave , the movie drags on after it's natural ending point . as you leave the theater , you may find that the most remarkable thing was that you were able to stay awake . that is , if you were . it is rated r for some violence , nudity and sexuality and would be acceptable for teenagers . 
how fast can a film with a killer cast die ? in its very first scene . gun shy , written and directed with an awkward obviousness by eric blakeney , is a comedy that's never funny . even if some of the script might have sounded humorous on paper , on the big screen it is presented so lifelessly that you'll want to take a gun and put it out of its misery . he's also got some serious bowel trouble -- now that's a great unplumbed comedic source . oliver platt , notably embarrassed to be part of such a production -- watch him rolling his eyes as a clue to his fans -- plays mafioso fulvio nesstra . fulvio , who'd rather be a gardener , doesn't like his lifestyle or his sloppy wife . the film's coldly antiseptic look will probably match your reaction to this peculiar , would-be comedy . charlie falls asleep during the middle of a big drug deal -- a problem you will likely have as well while watching it . " fun is overrated , " fulvio tells us at one point . one thing's for sure , it's not in this anything-but-fun film . arguably the worst picture that sandra bullock has ever been in , the movie was made by her own production company , so she has only herself to blame . it is rated r for violence , language and some brief nudity and would be acceptable for most teenagers . 
of course , we already know that . the film , nevertheless , wants to teach what we already know and do it like a kid's golden book . as directed by hugh hudson and scripted by paula milne and susan shilliday , the episodes in kuki's life fly by at channel-surfing speed . sure . the result is that episodes run by with the speed of cheetahs , and the director rarely takes time to set up any of them properly . okay , done with that idea . what , you may ask , happened next ? we're never told . storms blow in without warning and then are over with and forgotten before you can get interested . go to the restroom , and you'll miss a minimum of two disasters . the script reeks with clich ? s . " what kind of people do this ? " " we don't . it runs us . " one thing can unequivocally be said about the movie , bernard lutic's cinematography is stunning . but think about the material with which he had to work . then again , some movies ( fools rush in , for example ) can make even the grand canyon look ugly , so lutic could have blown it . my friend with me reminded me of a similar and much better show , " the flame trees of thika , " which played two decades ago on masterpiece theater . the problem with i dreamed of africa is that it tells a story that we've heard many times before and usually with a much stronger emotional impact . perhaps if the film were recut with fewer incidents and more development of the ones left , it might have worked . but , as released , it only works as a travelogue . i dreamed of africa runs 1 : 52 . it is rated pg-13 for a scene of nudity/sensuality and some violent/traumatic episodes and would be acceptable for teenagers . 
in battlefield earth , grown men get to dress up like klingons having bad hair days , while uttering some of the silliest dialog this side of a bad 1950s sci-fi flick . although the film has a few nice , but too dark , special effects , the only reason to see the it is as a guilty pleasure , so you can laugh at john travolta in an embarrassingly bad performance . his character laughs a lot , too - a hearty and silly " ha . ha . ha . one can only hope the book was more intelligent than it is portrayed on the screen . earthlings have been reduced to cavemen , who worship the stars in the heavens as gods . ( you'll be forced to stare at the psychlos' ugly pusses and dirty teeth in endless close-ups until you're ready to surrender . ) and when you end up in hell , it'll be a step up from this planet . " poor earth , which is mainly in ruins , gets dissed a lot in the movie . the cinematography uses various shades of a slimy blue-green . the picture tries hard to look gross and succeeds . just to make sure that no one is surreptitiously having a good time , there are some raw rat eating scenes tossed in to spice up the viewing . the psychlos , who act like imbeciles , think man animals are so stupid that they can't even be taught how to operate simple machinery and are good only for manual labor . try to count the number of films that the movie borrows from liberally . but whereas the originals are engrossing , battlefield earth is long and tedious . as a guilty pleasure , nothing is better than battlefield earth's totally preposterous concluding segment . wow , can those guys ever crack a book . whatever you do , try not to laugh . it may spoil the effect for those around you . they may be buying the story , hook , line and stinker -- i mean sinker . it is rated pg-13 for violence and would be acceptable for teenagers . given the movie's dark intensity , i'd be careful about taking kids under 13 . 
in battlefield earth , grown men get to dress up like klingons having bad hair days , while uttering some of the silliest dialog this side of a bad 1950s sci-fi flick . although the film has a few nice , but too dark , special effects , the only reason to see the it is as a guilty pleasure , so you can laugh at john travolta in an embarrassingly bad performance . his character laughs a lot , too - a hearty and silly " ha . ha . ha . one can only hope the book was more intelligent than it is portrayed on the screen . earthlings have been reduced to cavemen , who worship the stars in the heavens as gods . ( you'll be forced to stare at the psychlos' ugly pusses and dirty teeth in endless close-ups until you're ready to surrender . ) and when you end up in hell , it'll be a step up from this planet . " poor earth , which is mainly in ruins , gets dissed a lot in the movie . the cinematography uses various shades of a slimy blue-green . the picture tries hard to look gross and succeeds . just to make sure that no one is surreptitiously having a good time , there are some raw rat eating scenes tossed in to spice up the viewing . the psychlos , who act like imbeciles , think man animals are so stupid that they can't even be taught how to operate simple machinery and are good only for manual labor . try to count the number of films that the movie borrows from liberally . but whereas the originals are engrossing , battlefield earth is long and tedious . as a guilty pleasure , nothing is better than battlefield earth's totally preposterous concluding segment . wow , can those guys ever crack a book . whatever you do , try not to laugh . it may spoil the effect for those around you . they may be buying the story , hook , line and stinker -- i mean sinker . it is rated pg-13 for violence and would be acceptable for teenagers . given the movie's dark intensity , i'd be careful about taking kids under 13 . 
for those who think that what movies need today are more elaborate gimmicks , time code is the answer , since it is nothing but one long , insufferable gimmick . collectively these 4 movies form one story with the characters moving freely between the sections of the screen . the most exciting parts are when the characters place cell phone calls across quadrants for a little chitchat . the result is the artistic type of experiment that seems designed to put film critics in ecstasy over the movie's showy , avant-garde techniques . the film would seem destined to be played and discussed ad nauseam at college film courses . it should be pointed out that one can achieve almost the same effect any afternoon at your local sears store by turning 4 adjoining television sets on 4 different soap operas . yes , this approach will not permit the interaction between frames , but soap operas are so alike that you can easily imagine that the characters in the various shows are conversing . most viewers , however , will be more likely to point out time code's two fatal flaws . first , none of the stories in time code are worth including in a normal movie . most of the stories will have viewers alternating between wondering what they are about and not caring what the answer is . second , although having multiple screens is undeniably cute , it is just a distraction . sony's new marketing campaign suggests that viewers see the movie four times , watching a different quadrant at each session . since it's only the interaction between the quadrants that make the story the least bit compelling , concentrating on one would be painful . the large , stellar cast improvise their parts based on a written outline . figgis raises the audio level in the quadrant on which he would like us to focus , but even when he tries to get our eyes elsewhere , it's hard to look away as these two actresses in the back of a limo play kissy-face like a pair of love-struck teens . the only completely satisfying part of the production is the music , especially a long , dreamy section of a gustav mahler symphony . closing your eyes enhances the pleasure , but you run the risk of falling asleep . this is also a problem with your eyes open . i would rather have seen that movie than time code . it is rated r for drug use , sexuality , language and a scene of violence and would be acceptable for older teens . 
the problem with the movie , by director alain berliner ( my life in pink ) , is that neither of moore's lives -- as marie in the bucolic south of france or as marty in a spacious manhattan apartment -- are the least bit real on the screen . with warm light constantly bathing moore's face , the movie appears more like the pages of a glamour magazine than a motion picture . dressed always to the nines and living in picture postcard homes , moore appears to be a model on one long fashion shoot . with plot holes aplenty , the biggest might be why marty doesn't just catch a plane to marie's place , or vice versa , so that she can finally put an end to the charade . the pretentious script is full of such mumbo-jumbo . and what moore wishes to do is to pose rather than act . the director appears to have relinquished control to moore since his awkward staging makes sense only if one assumes that the film's purpose is nothing other than to be a vanity piece for moore . the only reason to stay to the end and the only thing to keep the viewers awake is pure curiosity about how the story will be resolved . the conclusion is kind of plausible , somewhat predictable and reasonably satisfying , but it certainly doesn't atone for making the audience endure the rest of this silly , lackluster film . it is rated pg-13 for scenes of sexuality and would be acceptable for kids 12 and up . 
what could be funnier that the mere sight of a really obese woman ? well , if this is your brand of humor -- as it was for exactly one very vocal member of our audience -- then big momma's house , starring martin lawrence ( blue streak ) , may be just the film for you . this one-joke movie generated a paltry number of laughs from our audience , save the aforementioned one-person laugh track . my personal laugh count total was exactly zero . the movie's attempts at humor weren't even enough to get many small grins out of me . only in the few episodes when lawrence escapes his " funny " costume does the story ever possess any genuine charm . sherry , played by the lovely nia long ( boiler room ) , adds class to a movie that doesn't have much . an actress who brings intelligence and grace to her pictures , she has such well-scrubbed looks that she always seems as if she just finished shooting a commercial for beauty soap . director raja gosnell , working from a hopeless script by darryl quarles and don rhymer , gives lawrence little apparent guidance , letting him wander around aimlessly in his outlandish outfit , searching for laughs . typical of the film's humor is a basketball match in which big momma plays a mean game , surprising some teenagers with her agility . at it's worst , suffice it to say that you'll thank your lucky stars that smell-o-vision didn't catch-on . is there anything good in the movie other than nia long ? the music is not bad . it is rated pg-13 for crude humor , sexual innuendo , language , brief nudity and some violence and would be acceptable for kids around 10 and up . my son jeffrey , age 11 , who loved lawrence's last picture ( blue streak ) , laughed very little at this one . giving it just * * , he liked lawrence only during those rare moments when he wasn't wearing a ton of latex . his main criticism of the film was simply that it wasn't very funny . 
gone in 60 seconds is a jerry bruckheimer production . you know the drill . nonsensical explosions and crashes happen with a regularity that rivals an atomic clock for accuracy . and like the constant ticking of a clock , the movie's repetitive pyrotechnics quickly become tiresome . why , you will be asking yourself , do they keep doing the same old thing if they can't find any fresh ways to stage them ? ( one has only to look at jackie chan in shanghai noon to see how one can find imaginative variations on an old theme . ) gone in 60 seconds is exactly how fast i wish it would have lasted . with such a pathetic lack of original ideas , the ironically titled movie should never have ground on for two hours . a remake of a 1974 picture of the same name , gone in 60 seconds has a mildly interesting premise . many of these are hard to find , none more so than memphis's nemesis , a 1967 shelby mustang gt 500 . and it's about as much fun to watch as staring at the hour hand on the clock . if you're new to movies and haven't seen car chases , you may find this all diverting . but if you've seen one of the better bruckheimer's films , such as the rock , then you'll know how lame most of the car chases are in gone in 60 seconds . angelina jolie is there to supply the sex appeal . and there are lots of others in a largely wasted cast . unfortunately , the movie gives us remarkably little reason to care about any of this . the only completely satisfying part of the production ? this low-pitched roar is the movie's only genuine visceral thrill . gone in 60 seconds runs 1 : 57 . it is rated pg-13 for violence , sexuality and language and would be acceptable for teenagers . 
if writer/director tom tykwer ever comes out with a film entitled the greatest , it's a shoo-in to win the oscar . last year , tykwer burst onto the american scene to much acclaim with his perfectly named run lola run , a movie which almost made my number one choice for best movie of the year . exhilarating and exhausting , watching it is like running a marathon and winning . three marathons to be precise . winter sleepers , i am extremely sorry to report , is aptly named . viewing it is a perfect remedy for insomnia in winter or any other season . in run lola run , the dialog was fine but not particularly important since it was the intensity of the action that carried the movie . winter sleepers , on the other hand , has the actors babbling so much drivel that it sometimes reminded me of the episodes of rbtv ( really bad tv ) in the new picture , the adventures of rocky and bullwinkle . the story is set in a snowy bavarian landscape that is made palpably cold and stunningly beautiful by frank griebe's cinematography . the interior sequences , however , are as dull and uninteresting as the exterior ones are magnificent . staying awake is hard during winter sleepers and , in retrospect , not especially necessary . if the movie has an audience it is probably among film students looking to see how successful directors develop their craft . certainly there are a few undeniably effective touches in winter sleepers that later show up spectacularly in run lola run . but , if you're not a film student , there are many better movies more worth your time . winter sleepers runs a long 2 : 02 . it is not rated but would be r for sex , accident violence and language and would be acceptable for older teenagers . 
coyote ugly is a romantic comedy produced by jerry bruckheimer . enough said ? the film is one long sexual tease that flaunts the mpaa rules . showgirls was nc-17 , but coyote ugly comes in at just pg-13 since the women keep their skimpy clothes on . this means that lots of preteens will discover wet t-shirts and provocative dances , maybe inspiring some to grow up and become exotic dancers . the picture is directed by david mcnally , whose previous work was herding lobsters who were advertising beer in the most popular commercial at the 1999 super bowl . okay , let's put the rating argument aside for the moment . " even if you're not sure , start spraying . " coyotes are women too wild to work at hooters . gina wendkos's script is full of such gems . another is that violet can only sing when no one is there or when the lights are out . generally , however , they dance as seductively as possible in cheesy , little outfits . they should have premiered the movie at hugh hefner's playboy mansion . this whole subplot is a throwaway designed to kill time between the erotic dance numbers . the lovers never take their clothes off so that the movie can keep its coveted pg-13 rating . this is pretty insulting to the audience's intelligence since the bar scenes push limits left and right . the thin plot , which makes soap operas seem profound in comparison , has an utterly predictable conclusion . it's really just a music video brought to the big screen in order to rake in the big bucks . for adults desperately searching for any guilty pleasure they can find , this may be the movie for them . officially it is rated pg-13 for sensuality . it would be acceptable for older teenagers . 
starring kim basinger , recently seen unimpressively in the equally awful i dreamed of africa , bless the child is a canonical b-movie , supernatural thriller . part of a genre that includes such trashy movies as stigmata , bless the child is one of the better of such bad movies . if that sounds like a left-handed compliment , it is . perhaps the most devastating comment on the film is that it isn't scary . unintentionally funny , certainly , but rarely frightening . a typical example of the unintentional humor occurs on a country road with fog as thick as the proverbial pea soup . the fog is good at making people disappear in such films , but , of course , the lack of any backup is no deterrent in a story in which stupid actions are par for the course . the best part of the movie is that coleman and most of the adult actors , save sewell , give quite respectable performances , much better in fact that a film of this caliber deserves . the result is a silly movie that's more watchable than you would expect , even when great actors like ian holm have to deliver such gems as , " today , the concept of evil is politically incorrect . " this much can be said for bless the child -- at least it gives god a fighting chance . this time , god isn't such a bad guy , and his side just might win in the end . but i don't want to give anything away to those of you incapable of guessing obvious conclusions . it is rated r for violence , drug content and brief language and would be acceptable for older teenagers . 
you don't have to worry about focus , lighting or subject material ; you just point your camcorder and shoot . editing is basically unnecessary , and you can just play the tape wherever you left off last . after all , your only intended audience is your friends , who are already predisposed to like it anyway . i had never heard of phish before this movie , which may reveal something about my age . not having previous interest in a subject , however , should be no hindrance . i had never thought much about electric chair construction or about the grunge rock movement , but the documentaries about them , errol morris's mr . death and doug pray's hype ! , were absolutely engrossing . in contrast , bittersweet motel is so formless that i began to wonder if the projectionist might have scrambled the reels . the documentary is as generic as the band it follows . their bland music reminds me of the sort of things that i hear playing from the ceiling while lying in the dentist's chair . it is relaxing but completely forgettable . but , just because the band isn't the next rolling stones , it does not follow that a documentary about them has to be so lifeless . we clearly see that this good-spirited group , described as dorks by some of their loyal fans , does enjoy their work . the members of phish certainly don't take themselves too seriously . this is about as insightful as this movie ever gets . in summary , bittersweet motel is for phish fans only . bittersweet motel runs what feels like a very long 1 : 20 . it is not rated but would be an r for brief instances of language , drug usage and mass nudity . absent these brief sections , the movie is pure g . it would be fine for teenagers . 
" you want it . i'm hot . with this promising start , the film looked to be another sassy and raunchy spoof ? la drop dead gorgeous , which skewered the world of beauty pageants . the hilarious drop dead gorgeous , which also starred dunst , was one of last year's most underrated comedies . bring it on , however , quickly goes downhill , taking itself too seriously and ladling on every clich ? in the screenwriter's manual . jessica bendinger's script is rampant with homophobic humor . " are you trying to tell me that you speak fag ? " whenever the script can't think of anything else humorous , it punctuates its sentences with homosexual epithets , figuring its audience will always find the word " fag " funny . rancho carne is vying for its sixth national cheerleading championship in a row , and the clovers look to be the squad to beat this year . there is the obligatory tryout scene in which people do just about everything but act like would-be cheerleaders . not one of these auditions is cute or original . the movie ends with dull outtakes that are so clearly preprogrammed that they aren't really outtakes at all . every now and then , the story does have its moments . you know , like phone sex . the few cheerleading sequences in the replacements are better that all of bring it on . the former are unpretentiously funny , whereas bring it on seems so embarrassed by its own basic material that it has to mix in everything from vomit sequences to pseudo racial conflicts . in a movie in which little is fresh , there is one scene which doesn't feel borrowed from a dozen other pictures . now that's certainly the start of a romance made in heaven . it is rated pg-13 for sex-related material and language and would be acceptable for kids around 12 and up . 
in christian duguay's the art of war , it's death by noise . no , not the characters' deaths , yours . with its explosive sound effects and normand corbeil's bombastic score , the film is an excedrin headache for viewers . the generic plot isn't important as it just provides the pretext for lots of fighting and gore . the picture itself , with its glitzy skyscraper locales , wants badly to be the next entrapment , which it isn't . with its awful dialog , the movie works best when it shuts up . what's lurking isn't a lot of brains . these dumb villains have never heard of bulletproof vests , so they make sure that cappella's dead by shooting him in the chest rather than the head . he doesn't think we would be smart enough to figure that out on our own . if all it takes to earn your entertainment dollars are audio assaults on your ears and bloody images for your eyes , the art of war may be just your ticket . those who demand a bit more from a movie will be bitterly disappointed . it is rated r for strong violence , some sexuality , language and brief drug content and would be acceptable for older teenagers . 
" i want to earn some respect . " an admitted perfectionist when it comes to creating his sound , diamond has a much more flexible attitude when it comes to ethics . would the pregnancy alone have been enough ? even if the script by the director , robert adetuyi doesn't work as a morality tale , it does form the basis for some interesting set pieces to demonstrate adetuyi's skills in staging scenes . handsomely lit and shot by cinematographer hubert taczanowski , the movie is a real treat for the eyes . your ears , however , may complain that there's little for them . when the actors aren't speaking , they strut upon the stage with impressive verve . but when they start reading their lines , you realize how vacuous the script is . even ignoring its propensity for non-stop profanity , there is little to admire about it . with miniscule plot and character development , the script leaves the visuals to carry the movie . and that's asking for some pretty heavy lifting . what do we learn of the characters ? gage has a succinct statement of human desires . the audacity ! this much can be said . after enduring many ugly bad movies , i , for one , appreciate having a bad movie that it is at least handsomely filmed and competently directed . 
" i want to earn some respect . " an admitted perfectionist when it comes to creating his sound , diamond has a much more flexible attitude when it comes to ethics . would the pregnancy alone have been enough ? even if the script by the director , robert adetuyi doesn't work as a morality tale , it does form the basis for some interesting set pieces to demonstrate adetuyi's skills in staging scenes . handsomely lit and shot by cinematographer hubert taczanowski , the movie is a real treat for the eyes . your ears , however , may complain that there's little for them . when the actors aren't speaking , they strut upon the stage with impressive verve . but when they start reading their lines , you realize how vacuous the script is . even ignoring its propensity for non-stop profanity , there is little to admire about it . with miniscule plot and character development , the script leaves the visuals to carry the movie . and that's asking for some pretty heavy lifting . what do we learn of the characters ? gage has a succinct statement of human desires . the audacity ! this much can be said . after enduring many ugly bad movies , i , for one , appreciate having a bad movie that it is at least handsomely filmed and competently directed . 
serial killer movies are probably the easiest to get right . formula pictures , they can almost run on autopilot . making an outstanding one , like copycat , of course , requires considerable skill and effort . in the watcher , by music video director joe charbanic , the pacing is so far off and the editing is so haphazard that it is easy to forget what genre the movie is supposed to belong to . it's not easy to make a dull serial killer movie , but charbanic has succeeded at least at that . watching actors who look like they might fall asleep at any moment can be rather sleep-inducing for an audience . of course , the movie is frequently so ridiculous that your own laughter may keep you awake . the movie's sparse dialog features such gems as : " goodness gracious , nothing like a good serial killer to kick off the holiday season . " this leaves the visuals to carry the movie , which they can't . long lethargic sections of film are interrupted briefly by hyperactive video segments . these grainy , choppy , blurry video images look like they were shot on a cheap camcorder by a drunk at a new year's eve party . the ludicrous aspects of the script by david elliot and clay ayers are almost endless , but let me mention just four : 1 ) they have a high quality color picture of one victim , but the poster that they cover the town with has such a low contrast black-and-white picture on it that you can't tell that it was the same woman . campbell offers to call him back , but , driving wildly with one-hand , hollis says that isn't necessary . it is no wonder then that our audience was laughing at the picture on the way out . when campbell utters the movie's last line , " time's up , " my immediate reaction was , " yes , but not nearly soon enough . " it is rated r for violence and language . having remarkably little gore and reasonably tame language , it would be acceptable for most teenagers , but i would not recommend it to anyone . 
from factory floor production numbers to death row dances , the movie doesn't shy away from unusual locales for singing and dancing . but with musical numbers that are so awful that they are only one notch away from the musical spoof in the producers , dancer in the dark isn't likely to have you running out to purchase its soundtrack . there may be those that will argue that trier , famous for the stern dogma 95 manifesto -- under whose rules this picture wasn't made , although it was shot on digital video -- wants dancer in the dark to be viewed as a tragedy . if that is how we are to evaluate it , then there is even less to recommend it . as a drama , the story requires one suspension of disbelief after another . selma's passion is the movie musical . an essential ingredient of musicals is music that is worth hearing . in dancer in the dark , the songs are more spoken than sung , and they are excruciatingly bland . you know the songs are coming because the movie's drab color palette , which approximates a faded home movie , is changed to oversaturated colors reminiscent of old technicolor musicals . speaking of filming , you'd better take along your motion sickness medicine to dancer in the dark , which frequently looks like it was filmed during a series of earthquakes . it also includes two quite horrific scenes . this movie , which has produced widely different opinions from praise to derision , is an uneasy one to view because some of the scenes , especially toward the end , are so manipulative and ridiculous that they are laughably bad . nevertheless , out of respect for those around you who may have bought into the story's premise , you feel compelled to hold your laughter . it's not easy . it is rated r for violence and would be acceptable for older teenagers . 
andr ? t ? chin ? 's confusing alice and martin ( alice et martin ) is a combination mystery and character study in which the more we learn , the less we care . the poorly drawn characters are so unsympathetic and uninteresting that we are happy to let them remain enigmas . in one of many jarring scene transitions , we quickly switch to martin , played lethargically by alexis loret , as a 20-year-old . the movie feels like a much longer film that was hacked up by a maniacal editor who chose random selections of footage . to be fair , this is more likely to be a problem attributable to writers olivier assayas , gilles taurand and andr ? t ? chin ? than editor martine giordano . couple this bewildering narrative with caroline champetier's ugly and dingy cinematography , and you get an obtuse mess . ( we are frequently told that europeans have a healthier attitude about sex than do we americans . -- falls for him . hmm , could there be more than meets the eye here ? do we care ? no . the film is in french with english subtitles . it is rated r for a scene of sexuality and language and would be acceptable for older teenagers . 
" there are actually two worlds -- our world and the digital world , " explains the narrator of digimon : the movie . " but don't plan a vacation there since i don't even know where it is . " finding out where it is will be the least of your problems since the movie's plot is about as clear as one of those obscure " illegal instruction " error message that your computer spits at you when it's angry . in a movie designed solely for its fans who possess the magic , mental decoder ring , they alone will be able to decipher it . and with the attraction of free trading cards -- while supplies last -- they will probably be going in droves as they did to the pokemon movies , which featured the same come-on gimmick . speaking of the pokemon movies , my wife said that she thought that she would never say it , but she found both of the pokemon movies were superior to the digimon one . the film's animation is second rate with dull colors and fuzzy drawing . neither this , nor the lackluster music , can compensate for the story's confusion . in the spirit of full disclosure , i have to admit that i cheated ! a couple of times i had to lean over and ask my son , a digimon aficionado , who was who , since most of the characters are so similarly drawn . the best parts of the movie are a few funny lines , although some are unintentionally so , such as , " diabormon is eating the internet ! " the best comes when izzy asks tai , in disgust at his lack of knowledge , " do you know what a semiconductor is ? " tai guesses . unless you are already a knowledgeable digimon fan , pass on the movie and have more fun by upgrading your computer . trust me , upgrading , probably not your idea of a good time , will be much more enjoyable . digimon : the movie runs 1 : 29 , but it'll feel much longer . it is rated pg for action violence and would be acceptable for all ages . my son jeffrey , age 11 , gave the movie * * * * . he said he liked everything about it except for the digivolving part , which went too fast . 
jonathan lipnicki , charming in stuart little but cloying in jerry maguire , is relatively benign this time as tony . with spiked hair full of gel , nerdy glasses and a frozen expression , he does nothing to enliven ulrich edel's the little vampire , which is as dead as a vampire with a stake through its heart . one supposes that the movie is meant to be taken as a comedy , but it is a low-key and lifeless one with its best scenes generating only a small grin . it does , however , give a new meaning to the old expression , " i could eat a cow . " nothing in this flat film is worth outright laughs . with its cheap special effects and unattractive , bleak cinematography , the movie isn't much fun to watch either . it's an unimaginative , low-budget feature that you would expect to be released as a direct-to-tv movie on a kids' cable network . dressed like a bum and acting like a madman , rookery carries a glowing cross made out of florescent tubes to control the vampires . parents need to be warned about this film whose trailers look innocent and which comes with just a pg rating . it has significant potential to frighten younger viewers . later we briefly see a ketchup bottle sitting on a table , but kids will have long since been scared and probably won't notice the bottle anyway . and overall the movie is filled with dark images and spooky atmospherics . the childish story doesn't have much to recommend it to those over 12 . they deserve much better , but if you've got kids in this limited age group , they'll probably like it . my son did . it is officially rated pg for " some mild peril , " but remember my warning . it would be acceptable for most kids over 8 . my son jeffrey , age 11 , gave the picture * * * * . he said that he liked the way the movie had a strong but simple plot and that rudolph was his favorite character . his only complaint was that he didn't like the ending scene and that the pg rating was too mild . 
the unrealistic story never convinces us that so many women would be attracted to him . and with its non-stop use of voice-over , the movie wants badly to be taken as a poignant coming of age story as well as a comedy . it succeeds at neither . maybe some directors could have gotten great comedic mileage out of this scene but not bader . the whole episode just feels strange and is devoid of humor . " you're not going to make me do it again . " but the movie keeps making us see these same clumsily and unconvincingly staged scenes over and over again . loving jezebel is the sort of film that should make people appreciate the ladies man more . it was certainly a lot more fun . it is rated r for language and sexuality and would be acceptable for older teenagers . 
in matthew huffman's playing mona lisa , alicia witt , as 23-year-old pianist claire goldstein , is fairly charming in a movie that almost never is . as sweet as her favorite ho-ho's , claire is an attractive redhead who woofs down junk food like carrot sticks but stays as skinny as a fashion model . a flat and fairly lifeless comedy , playing mona lisa generates only a couple of chuckles and not even many smiles . it does reappear briefly a few times in the narrative . this is one of many unbelievable aspects of the script . claire's parents are played by marlo thomas and elliott gould , the latter being a member of my red-flag list of actors who make me question the quality of any movie that hires them . for those of you who aren't fans of gould be warned that you have to endure a smarmy scene with gould and thomas dancing on a rooftop , as well as an even worse one of them staring at a tablecloth in one of the most unbelievable drug hallucination scenes on record . the movie , which is devoid of almost any comedic energy , likes to toss out throwaway lines and ideas . at other times the movie wants to be taken as an old-fashioned screwball comedy , complete with quirky characters in every room . james glennon's drab cinematography with its washed-out colors manages to make san francisco look downright dreary . even the film's sound is singularly dull , as if the theater had just installed heavy curtains on the walls . overall , the picture reminds one of those movies that you see at film festivals in which you just shake your head and think to yourself that they'll never get a distributor . yes , reading . several characters are shown reading for the pure pleasure of enjoying a good novel . in an electronics-infatuated age reading books is a wonderfully retro idea . it is rated r for drug content , sex-related dialogue and brief language and would be acceptable for older teenagers . 
although based on a real life hero , carl brashear , the first african-american navy diver , the movie features a tedious script by first-time film writer scott marshall smith that is so treacly that it could attract flies . and just in case you miss the precise moments in which you are expected to cry or applaud , mark isham's syrupy and bombastic music will remind you as it blasts through the theater's speakers . on the other hand , if you close your eyes and ignore the movie itself , it is easy to be impressed by the nobility and drive of the man himself . too bad that this movie doesn't serve him better . in an unbelievable and way over-the-top performance , robert de niro plays master chief billy " i am god ! " sunday . " why do you want this so badly ? " " because they said that i couldn't have it , " he shots back with one of his typical sound bites . the overly long movie features lots of diving in deep , murky water , in which it's rarely clear what is happening . between the cloudiness of the water and the small glass window the diver looks through , we can't see much of anything , certainly no subtleties in the actor's expression . the supporting cast is pretty much wasted . she isn't given anything of any consequence to do and adds nothing for her paycheck . the story features lots of ridiculous and unbelievable bravado . dragging the movie out a half-hour too long , tillman , thinking he is directing an epic , finds few incidents that he doesn't want to exaggerate and drag out . some in the audience will obey . don't be surprised that if you don't , you'll feel guilty . with less ham-handed direction and a more honest script , this could have been a wonderful movie . could have been . it is rated r for language but also contains scary and gory scenes of diving accidents . it would be acceptable for teenagers . 
even after the inert actors in antony hoffman's red planet make their journey there , the count of life forms still appears to be about zip . with an arid landscape that is the spitting image of utah , the tedious movie is about as much fun as a long stroll through a hot utah desert without benefit of water . it seems that earth's resources have been depleted by bad ecological choices , so the planet's inhabitants have decided to colonize mars . if you think that awol algae doesn't sound like a hot recipe for a picture , you'd be right . the good news about the cast is that val kilmer avoids his usual proclivity for overacting with a vengeance . the bad news is that he phones in his part without one scintilla of emotion . actually , the whole cast seems affected by the lighter martian gravity which appears to make time slow down and brains go into idle loops . in order to jazz up this pg-13-rated science fiction tale , writers jonathan lemkin and channing gibson have the commander parade naked and wear tight see-through tops . " why don't you go fix something ? " " that's not good , " the commander remarks when something unexpected happens . " no , it isn't , " the computer replies wittily . usually , one wants to see science fiction movies on the big screen in order to appreciate the impressive images . in red planet , peter suschitzky's dark and dull cinematography gives you little reason not to wait for video . and if you do wait , you would be better off renting mission to mars , which is a superior movie . " you want me to shut up and let you die quietly ? " burchenal asks gallagher at one point . it is rated pg-13 for sci-fi violence , brief nudity and language and would be acceptable for kids around 12 and up . 
" enigmatic , " robert replies . the problem with writer/director brian skeet's the weekend is that , to the extent that it is an enigma , it is not one worth solving . a slow , ponderous and pretentious film , it has a treacly score that fills every crevice of the set with melancholic solo piano and violin music . the actors move in something approximating slow motion , which only adds to the film's soporific effect . sweeney ) , the film provides very little for the actors to do other that deliver the speeches that go for dialog in the movie . ( " you silence the artist and you silence the most articulate voice the people have , " robert says , quoting oscar wilde . ) with the film's setting by a vast river , ron fortunato's stunning cinematography is the only consistently enjoyable part of the production . we have frequent flashbacks which show tony posturing and looking like a greek god . " if we expect nothing from our children and they expect nothing of us , no one will be disappointed , " she tells us as sort of her philosophy of life . in a bit of unintentional humor , the movie's most unrealistic scene occurs at a dinner when the two families get together for the first time . " biographies can make the most thrilling lives seem banal , " author laura says in a bit of self-deprecating criticism . and movies , like the weekend , can make potentially interesting topics dreadfully dull . it is not rated but would be an r for brief nudity , some sexuality and language and would be acceptable for teenagers . 
the confusing and awkward script is loosely based on the 1957 movie across the bridge with rod steiger . personally , i didn't find any of the film funny , although i did smile when freddy tried to drive a car across the rio grande . whoops , too deep . the movie relies on the old routine of things frequently not being what they seem . the ridiculousness of the script is perhaps best shown in daryl's actions on the train . this just doesn't make any sense whether you take his request to be a serious one , as it appears to be , or as a joke . in either case , it isn't funny , and it doesn't make any sense in the context of the story . the entire movie plays like a reject for a convoluted saturday night live skit . and if you ignore the comedic parts and evaluate the movie as a cop drama -- after all , lots of people die -- it has even less to offer . this movie isn't even worth a first take , much less a double take . it is rated pg-13 for violence and language and would be acceptable for kids around 11 and up . my son jeffrey , age 11 , thought the film was funny and gave it * * * . he said that the story did not fit together properly so they should have spent about 15 more minutes in the beginning developing the characters . 
stiles ( 10 things i hate about you ) just does not have the body of a ballerina . would you cast danny devito to try out for the nba ? don't get me wrong , the only good part of the movie is their relationship together . the problem is that they don't fit the script , and even if they did , this is not a movie worth making . between its lame dance sequences is more dead air time than a radio station during a long power blackout . the movie , directed by thomas carter and written by duane adler and cheryl edwards , never can decide what kind of movie it wants to be . sometimes it's a sappy melodrama . sometimes it tries to be a hard hitting drama about jealousy among the races over interracial dating . sometimes it is about male bonding ( " blood is thicker than blondes . " ) and sometimes , finally , we get around to dancing , but the choreography is so awkward and the editing so choppy that you probably won't care . at this point , sara refuses to dance anymore or even talk about it . along the way we are taught many dubious moral lessons . the kids all get fake ids and drink illegally in a fancy nightclub in elegant clothes . and then there's the issue of violence . yes , this whole script is lifted from lots of other films and plays , most notably west side story . but in those , the actions have some amount of credibility . here people are shot , but the dreamy background music makes it seem downright romantic and not especially painful . i like stiles and thomas together . i did not like the movie in which they found themselves stuck . it is rated pg-13 for violence , sexual content , language and brief drug references and would be acceptable for teenagers . my son jeffrey , age 11 , gave the picture just * * . he thought it was too slow , the whole malakai character was unnecessary , and he didn't like sara's relationship with her parents . 
tv director danny leiner's dude , where's my car ? trying to find something original , first-time writer philip stark's script includes a transgendered lap dancer , space nerds and sexy extraterrestrials . in more competent hands , the silly plot might have been developed into something funny . even if dude , where's my car ? would rate a zero on the laugh-o-meter , at least it is a fairly good-spirited and colorful film that produces a few smiles . a kitchen sink comedy , it throws in every gag that it can think of within the bounds of a pg-13 rating . it is a shame that they can't recall the previous night since people keep running into them to remind them about it . this is a device from outer space whose " mystery is only exceeded by its power . " yes , you guessed , these chicks are really aliens who are up to no good . the nerds wear " interstellar jumpsuits " made of ordinary bubble wrap . although i haven't even touched on other subplots like the one involving killer ostriches , you probably know more than enough to get a good sense of the movie . this much can be said in its defense -- it is far from the worst movie this year . it wouldn't even make the bottom 10 . that may not exactly be a recommendation , but it is the best that can be said . well , i guess i can think of one other -- i never considered walking out . dude , where's my car ? it is rated pg-13 for language and some sex and drug-related humor and would be acceptable for most teenagers . 
there are two bond films that aren't part of the official broccoli family canon -- casino royale ( 1967 ) and never say never again ( 1983 ) . the two are pretty terrible . casino royale was so awful that i still haven't gotten around to writing a review of it . never say never again begs the question of whether we are ready to feel sorry for james bond . i think not . director irvin kershner can't manage to get a decent performance out of any of the cast , but , given how incredibly weak lorenzo semple jr . 's script is , maybe it was hopeless . the by-the-numbers script , which is a lame remake of thunderball , has spectre stealing two nuclear bombs to use in a big extortion scheme . long , hackneyed fight sequences drag on and on , and the special effects are nothing to write home about . even the bond film's signature opening title sequence is completely missing . and the dull music throughout isn't worthy of a bond movie . " i certainly hope we're going to have some gratuitous sex and violence , " q ( alec mccowen ) tells 007 . " i hope so too , " he replies . in never say never again , we get these standard ingredients but the results are as flat as bread without yeast . bond movies should first and foremost be fun . never say never again is as dull as dishwater . never say never again runs a long 2 : 17 . it is rated pg for sexual situations and violence and would be acceptable for kids around 9 and up . my son jeffrey , now almost 12 and a big bond fan , just sat staring at never say never again . he said that it just didn't feel at all like a bond film . 
help me out with something that i just don't get . why would people pay movie ticket prices for films that are nothing more than another episode of a television cartoon series that they could stay at home and see for nothing ? i can understand this if the movie , and the series on which it is based , has some edge , as did rugrats in paris . but recess : school's out is about as generic a kids' movie as you're likely to find . there's not much to laugh at and barely enough material even to keep the viewers awake . it's harmless enough , but watching a blank wall is also pretty benign , so its lack of offensive material hardly serves as a recommendation . recess : school's out is the type of movie that sets your mind to worrying about the strangest things . i became concerned that a wind might hit the screen . if it did , the characters , which are drawn to look as flat as paper dolls , would certainly all blow down , leaving us with no actors for the story . now that would undoubtedly upset the youngsters in the audience . actually the kids in our audience were so quiet i began to wonder if they had fallen asleep . theodore 't . j . ' most of the script is as bland as saturday cartoons , but a few lines are good ( " technically , after the completion of fourth grade , we are pre-young adults . " and " i got to warn you . i'm a black belt in origami . " ) . there is one saving grace for adults : the music -- high-energy , classic rock tunes , including " born to be wild , " " dancing in the street , " " wipe out , " " one " and " let the sunshine in . " it's about the only thing that will keep most of them awake . skip the movie . if your kids want to see recess , let them watch it on television . it is rated g and has nothing to offend anyone of any age . my son jeffrey , almost 12 , gave the movie * * 1/2 . he thought the plot and characters needed improvement . both of them said that they really liked the soundtrack but didn't like the hippie period flashback . ( i especially liked that scene , but i was at berkeley in the 60s so it brought back good memories . ) 
demian lichtenstein's 3000 miles to graceland isn't the movie that you've seen in the trailers , which is a shame . that movie looked like a lot of fun . we know this because the first 20 minutes or so follow this outline . but after that , in a hail of thousands and thousands of bullets , the picture turns into another gorefest that would be an nc-17 candidate if the mpaa hadn't long ago fallen asleep at the wheel . after a promising beginning , the guys shed their costumes and the movie turns into a bad spaghetti western -- one too cheesy for clint to have anything to do with . get it ? well enjoy it , since that's about as funny as 3000 miles to graceland ever gets . the busy script by richard recco and demian lichtenstein has more holes than the proverbial swiss cheese . the script attempts to fill all of the holes with lots of shoot-'em-ups . and , when he can't think of anything else to do , which is often , the director points the camera at the clouds , which the editor speeds up . don't knock it . it keeps you awake . barely . among the hollywood actors to drop by for parts is jon lovitz -- you know , the guy who invented the yellow pages . " it's a joke , " his character tells murphy after one of his failed attempts at humor . you'll need to be reminded of that often in this comedy , which is as flat as the nevada desert where it is set . take my advice and don't stay to watch the music video during the closing credits . it will make you sad for it shows what the disappointing 3000 miles to graceland could have been -- irreverently funny rather than mean-spiritedly tedious . it is rated r for strong violence , sexuality and language and would be acceptable for high school seniors and older . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
freedom isn't good for everyone . filmed in a hazy black and white , writer/director oskar r ? hler's no place to go ( die unber ? hrbare ) is an unrelentingly bleak film that has little idea with what to do with its theme of a once popular writer cast adrift . elsner's acting is impressive , but the story provides little reason to care about her . setting a glacial pace , the director takes a long time to say very little . watching no place to go , you're likely to think about all of the other places to which you could go if you weren't waiting for the film's inevitable conclusion . it is not rated but would be an r for nudity , sexual situations and language . it would be acceptable for older teenagers . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
blow dry , which the ads loudly proclaim to be by the writer of the full monty , has all the charm of a fifth generation copy of a tape of the full monty , which is what it feels like . there's a tragedy to be coped with -- this time it's cancer rather than unemployment . it's too bad that this time he forgot to make it funny . to be fair , much of the blame has to go to director paddy breathnach , who wasn't associated with the full monty or anything else you've ever heard of before blow dry . set in keighley , england , the movie is about the national hairdressing championship , a veritable hair olympics . the script does little with this lesbian subtheme other than introduce it . although the movie's cast is good , their acting isn't much more lively than the corpses lying around waiting to have their hair done . actually , the whole movie is about as dead as these stiffs . i didn't think alan rickman ( galaxy quest ) could give a performance this lifeless , but director breathnach does the impossible , turning the living into the dead . maybe he has a future in horror flicks . blow dry runs 1 : 45 . it is rated r for some language and brief nudity and would be acceptable for most teenagers . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
when a movie " opens " with an admonition that you can safely ignore the violence against animals since no animals were actually harmed during its production , you know that something is up . amores perros ( love's a bitch ) , an extremely disturbing mexican film that received one of this year's academy award nominations for best foreign film , is a perfect picture for those who think that the violence in movies today is not intense enough . using a format similar to steven soderbergh's traffic , the movie relies on fast pacing and jump cuts to tell three overlapping and intersecting stories . whereas traffic's central theme is drug trafficking , amores perros's common thread is graphic violence against dogs , featuring more cut-up , mutilated and gruesomely dead dogs that you've ever seen or will ever wish to see again . the level of violence is so gratuitous and so disgusting that i picked up my coat several times and started to walk out , something i almost never do . the only thing that kept me in my seat -- other than hoping , incorrectly as it turns out , that the gore would diminish -- was that this is a well made film . highly derivative of other works , the movie by director alejandro gonz ? lez i ? ? rritu and writer guillermo arriaga started me thinking that perhaps their names were pseudonyms and that it was really a steven soderbergh and quentin tarantino collaboration . perhaps the " sport " of training dogs to maul and kill each other will be of interest to some , but i found it repulsive . if you have a pet , if you've ever had a pet or if you're even thinking about getting a pet , this isn't the movie for you . others may enjoy the director's technical proficiency and be able to ignore how derivative his work feels . it's an energetic but sickening thrill ride of a movie . it's also a cinematic low point . what's next ? hacking up babies as a way to provide theatrical thrills to those who have been anesthetized by lower levels of violence ? it is not rated but would be nc-17 for graphic violence against humans and animals as well as for language , nudity and sex . the film would be acceptable for college students and older . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
baise-moi ( rape me ) , which has the dubious distinction of being literally banned in france , could be a strikingly effective public service announcement against the dangers of casual sex if it weren't for the fact that manu and nadine like to murder strangers , male and female , indiscriminately even if no sex whatsoever is involved . the reactions to the film are likely to be as widely varied as at our screening in which one guy laughed constantly , apparently seeing the film as a humorous thelma & louise do porn , and another woman remarked to me afterwards that a film like this could ruin sex for you forever . a hyperviolent film which features real , not simulated , sex , it does have its erotic moments , the shocking rape scene not being one of them . " where are the witty lines ? " amen . the film is in french with english subtitles . it is not rated but would be nc-17 for graphic , real sex , graphic violence , drug usage and language . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
joe dirt , which has the second worst trailer this year ( freddy got fingered's are even worse ) , is pretty much what you'd expect from a movie produced by adam sandler . full of bathroom humor , food fights and humping dogs , it's the kind of movie beloved by its target audience and correctly shunned by others . speaking of lost , spade , last seen starring in lost & found , which i regretfully found , was worse then than in joe dirt . although kelly maligns dirt , calling him " exquisitely pathetic " and " a white trash idiot , " dirt just keeps dishing out his story to kelly's eager audience . the movie is like that . last week's tomcats is a comedic masterpiece next to joe dirt . it is rated pg-13 for crude , sex-related humor and language and would be acceptable for teenagers . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
it's the movie that everyone feared , incorrectly as it turned out , that titanic would be -- a big , expensive special effects extravaganza without a heart . and it's the kind of movie that leaves viewers angry for wasting incredible amounts of their time with such drivel . you'll laugh . you'll cry . you'll undoubtedly laugh out loud at its many sappy moments of ridiculous hokum . and you probably at least feel like crying that such an important event in our country's history has been turned into a silly romance with one clich ? d line after another . what a colossal wasted opportunity . buy the popcorn and go for the big tub . you'll need something to do as you wait forever for the movie to get to its raison d' ? tre , the destruction of most of the united states's navy at pearl harbor . all of the characters are reduced to stereotypes so that you'll likely care little when tragedy strikes them . even the movie's sex scene , which is shot with a soap commercial gloss , is laughable . sometimes the film gets so over-the-top that you begin to wonder if it is an intentional parody of a wartime romance . the trite dialog includes such gems as , " you don't dogfight with a manual , " " if i had one more night to live , i'd want to spend it with you , " " all i ever wanted was to have a home and grow old together , " and " good huntin' . " after most such lines , the music is brought up dramatically . the movie , with its heavy , syrupy score , frequently seems more like a music video than a movie . the trailer scenes form the body of the movie's only successful part , the half-hour section that occurs just past the midpoint in this endurance contest of a picture -- it's over three hours long . my advice to you is to arrive ninety minutes late since nothing , absolutely nothing , of interest happens until the japanese zeros arrive to obliterate our fleet . what , you will be asking yourself frequently during this period , does this all have to do with pearl harbor ? and , as you twiddle your thumbs waiting for something to happen , you'll keep asking yourself , " why does this story have to be over three hours long ? " which brings us to the movie's most intriguing revelation . in a fascinating bit of revisionist history , the movie has the japanese leader explain how they were forced into it . kind of makes you wonder what insights a bruckheimer story about hitler would divulge about his real motives . if you're willing to put up with the saccharine nonsense of the first half , the movie's middle section -- a cgi tour de force -- will send chills up your spine as our boys are almost completely annihilated and sent to watery graves in which many still lie . the computer generated effects are awesome , which is a good argument for seeing a film about the making of pearl harbor . " i'm not going to make it , " one of the brave soldiers says at the end . i know just how he feels . i barely made it through the long ordeal of watching the movie . it is rated pg-13 for sustained intense war sequences , images of the wounded , brief sensuality and some language and would be acceptable for teenagers . its pg-13 rating is quite questionable since the horrific scenes of the wartime wounded , who squirt blood everywhere , are much more intense than you'd ever expect to find in a pg-13 film . in the silicon valley , it will be showing at the amc and the century theaters . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
what's the worst that could happen ? well , you could be watching freddie got fingered , the worst movie of the year and perhaps the decade , rather than what's the worst that could happen ? the latter , while it isn't particularly funny , may not even be the worst comedy of the week . his previous 2 films , drowning mona and the aptly named screwed , were perfectly awful . ) max feels no guilt since kevin has just robbed one of max's mansions . typical of the story's gags is kevin's inability to tell a lie without blinking . sam weisman ( the out-of-towners ) , who directs with ham handed obviousness , has lawrence exaggerate his blinking like a stage actor who needs to make sure that even those audience members way back in the cheap seats can still see his gestures . just in case the visuals aren't enough to have you in stitches , the dogs turn out to have a major flatulence problem . this juvenile comedy , with its recycled humor that seems always aimed squarely at kids around 12 or so , does have one truly funny scene . the television camera bleeps it all out , but the sign language translator relishes her big opportunity to ad lib with some obvious but nonetheless hilarious gestures . what's the worst that could happen ? it is rated pg-13 for language and sexual content and would be acceptable for kids around 8 and up . my son jeffrey , age 12 , thought the picture was really funny and gave it * * * 1/2 . in the silicon valley , it will be showing at the amc and the century theaters . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
the other is an adorable colleen haskell from the original " survivor " series , who plays schneider's human love interest . as you watch her being delightful in a movie which is awful , you find yourself eagerly awaiting her next picture , which has to be better . are you laughing yet ? you aren't ? a man who lusts after every tail -- of whatever species -- in sight ? okay , i give up . you aren't laughing . the movie's tagline nicely sums it up : " he wasn't much of a man . . . . well , this much can be said in the animal's defense . it isn't the worst movie of the week . by a nose , it loses this dubious distinction to another juvenile comedy , what's the worst that could happen ? it is rated pg-13 for some crude and sexual humor and would be acceptable for kids around 12 and up . my son jeffrey , age 12 , gave the picture just a single * . he said it was plotless slapstick that had only a few funny moments . in the silicon valley , it will be showing at the amc and the century theaters . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
i know jodie foster's acting . moore , who may be right for some parts , is completely wrong for the intelligent but vulnerable fbi agent clarice starling in hannibal , the much anticipated sequel to the silence of the lambs . and without the right casting for agent starling , the movie degenerates into little more than a borefest , i mean gorefest . ( foster reportedly passed on the part because she didn't think the high blood level of the screenplay was worth her time . action director ridley scott ( g . i . jane ) replaces the more thoughtful jonathan demme , who besides the silence of the lambs is also known for such pictures as philadelphia . you might expect scott to be more dramatic , which he is in sections . more often , however , hannibal is paced so ploddingly that viewers will spend more time bored than grossed out . they will rarely be engrossed by the movie , which is quite tedious . the basic plot this time has dr . hannibal lecter abroad in florence . of course , without him the sequel probably would have never been made . too bad he didn't hold out for more money . those going in for blood and gore will not be disappointed , even if they do have to endure long , dull periods between slicing and dicing . intestines fly , and worse , much worse . this god angle turns out to be a cinematic dead end . besides many logical problems , the dialog lacks almost any comedic punch . about the only memorable line is that hannibal likes to " eat the rude . " " i'm not happy ! " and neither will most viewers be , based on the disgusted comments i heard going out of my packed screening . if you've barely been able to stomach most of the movie , leave before the last act , which becomes a bigger barfola than a ride on an upside-down roller coaster after a greasy hamburger . hannibal runs a very long 2 : 11 . it is rated r for strong gruesome violence , some nudity and language and would be acceptable for high school seniors and older . 
the movie is part light , romantic comedy and part major weeper , but the leads are as miscast this time as they were well cast the last . an aptly named picture , sweet november is cloyingly sweet and feels like it has a running time of an entire month . this remake of a 1968 film of the same name , starring sandy dennis and anthony newley , produces laughs at the wrong moments . the comedic first half , which plays like a rejected pilot for a television sitcom , produces few chuckles . the serious second half , on the other hand , is so schmaltzy that it will have you laughing in ridicule at its most " tender " moments , especially when the big " surprise " is revealed . " nelson , would you like to be my november ? " ( as a side benefit , they get free sex with charlize theron , but the movie works hard to make this seem downright unimportant . " truth is , " nelson informs sara , " i don't have a month . in the absence of any genuine chemistry between them , reeves and theron are given silly things to say ( " life isn't perfect " ) and do ( singing , don't ask ) . everything in the movie's first half is ha-ha funny . hers has only one tv , but it's being used as a planter . well , it's supposed to be tragically sad , but it isn't because there isn't a moment of genuine emotion in it . the people around me were laughing when they were supposed to be crying , and who could blame them . sweet november doesn't deserve any respect . it is rated pg-13 for sexual content and language and would be acceptable for kids around 11 and up . 
" we've got a problem ? " before an orchestra starts , it carefully establishes a reference tone . one of the biggest problems with town & country is that it never finds any consistent or successful tone . the result is a dreadful comedy that's as flat as a can of soda left open all night . the cello looks particularly happy . can't say that i blame it . but , i digress . he swears to himself to never yield to such temptation again , but he , of course , does not keep this vow . the visuals of a tipsy marilyn monroe frolicking in the snow with a horny polar bear is one of the few memorable or even mildly amusing parts of the production . ( the less said about charlton heston's embarrassing role as a mad , gun-toting father , the better . ) the film has reportedly been recut several times in order to find some version that works . the editors clearly stopped too soon . they could have used the confetti to celebrate something worthwhile like some better movie's release . it is rated r for sexuality and language and would be acceptable for most teenagers . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
so what is the value of a video game that can only be watched ? especially one with long patches of leaden and ridiculous dialog such as , " my ignorance amuses me . " ( hmm , does that mean the studio will spare us a sequel until the year 7001 ? we're probably not going to be that lucky . ) among the movie's " memorable " moments is an attack sequence that looks like something from the planet of the easily broken stone apes . croft is an indestructible fighting machine like a typical video game character . " lara's overrated , " one of the characters remarks . boy , i'd say . that way , when you quickly get bored and leave , you'll have saved yourself time and money . it is rated pg-13 for action violence and some sensuality and would be acceptable for kids around 9 and up . my son jeffrey , age 12 , gave the movie * * * * , saying the action was great and the plot was pretty good . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
in kiss of the dragon , jet li could be called a lean , mean , fighting machine were it not for his monk-like stoicism . given his complete absence of emotion , a more apt description would be to call him a lean , fighting cipher . but , if it's merely violent action you crave , then chris nahon's kiss of the dragon will not disappoint you , as the director seems to be shooting for a dps ( deaths per scene ) rate somewhere in the single digits . " i'm stupid , but i'm not that stupid , " fonda's character says at one point . well , fonda signed up to do this bit of acting slumming , which was pretty stupid , especially after her monkeybone bomb . then again , maybe they didn't want to constrain the action sequences by having to adhere to some arbitrary storyline . kiss of the dragon runs a long 1 : 38 . it is rated r for strong violence , language , some sexuality and drug content and would be acceptable for older teenagers . my son jeffrey , age 12 , gave the film * * * , praising the high level of action and complaining about the lack of a plot . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
jackpot , the second picture by the polish brothers , director and co-writer michael polish and co-writer mark polish , tackles the world of competitive karaoke singing . the surprise is that the disappointing duets is the livelier of the two . even without the duets comparison , however , the gloomy jackpot has all of the fizz of a soda left open overnight . how much exactly ? grizzled veterans of the karaoke wars , they both sport scraggly beards and cheap clothing . in other long , uninteresting scenes , lester offers sunny lots of unsolicited advice on how to be successful . the movie features some known actors in cameo performances . anthony edwards shows up , and that's about it . it's never clear what kind of movie jackpot wants to be . what happens or , more precisely , what doesn't quite happen there is either funny or creepy , but it's not clear which . jackpot is like that scene . it's not clear how to take it , and with its lack of energy , we end up not caring . it is rated r for language and sexuality and would be acceptable for most teenagers . in the silicon valley , it will be showing at the camera cinemas and the amc theaters . 
have you heard the one about the mail order bride ? michael cristofer's original sin , a film which could spark a rebirth in the mail order bride business with men hoping to hit a jolie jackpot , is a costume drama sans any real drama . julia , in voice-over , explains , " no , this is not a love story , but a story about love . " with lush settings , handsome costumes and beautiful actors , the film does have some rewards , the plot not being one of them . you'll soon guess where the story is going , but you won't care . those purchasing tickets in hopes of seeing a guilty pleasure will likely be disappointed . as louis and julia engage in open-mouth kissing , they smack loudly like a couple of preschoolers woofing down greasy hamburgers . don't be shocked , but julia isn't faithful . maybe this is the original sin to which the title refers . it's certainly one that i haven't heard of before . of the many over-the-top moments in the picture , my favorite happens when louis comes riding at full gallop straight towards the audience . the editor speeds up the film so that it looks rather like a scene from an old keystone cops comedy . it's one of many unintentionally funny moments . " i love it , even the cheap melodrama , " julia says of the theater . well , i suspect that the only people who will love this melodrama will be those who enjoy it as something like an illustrated version of a harlequin romance novel . don't go , however , if you're looking for substance or for cheap thrills . original sin runs a long 1 : 56 . it is rated r for " strong sexual content and some violence " and would be acceptable for older teenagers . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
summer catch isn't . a lackluster twist on the old baseball classic bull durham , the movie features a bunch of young heartthrobs cast to attract just the right demographics . it stars pretty boy freddie prinze jr . who has one of least impressive track records around . the only movie that i ever remember liking him in was she's all that . as directed by michael tollin and written by kevin falls and john gatins , the picture doesn't have a single original idea . the spoken dialog isn't much better . the film has trouble deciding what kind of movie it wants to be . sometimes , it wants to be a cleaned up version of porky's . to accomplish that with a pg-13 rating , the guys don thong bikini panties -- don't ask -- to show off their derri ? res , and the girls are seen in bras and wet t-shirts . at other times , the movie thinks it's about the sport of baseball with serious scouts in the stands hanging on every pitch . still other times , it tries to be a study of the debilitating effects of class consciousness in america , as some of the actors show 100-year-old english class sensibilities . playing in a supposedly very important collegiate summer league , which has less than a hundred fans , ryan hopes to be picked up by a major league team . the only semi-decent performance in the picture comes from brian dennehy as ryan's coach . there isn't one scintilla of chemistry between the love birds and not much between ryan and the sport with which he is supposedly so infatuated . the ending will likely have baseball fans shaking their heads in disbelief . 
samantha lang's the monkey's mask is about nudity and bad poetry -- really bad poetry . the nudity is in the context of a lesbian affair that's about as convincing as a playboy photo shoot . there is also a murder mystery of sorts , but , with the film going in what feels like slow motion , you'll probably not care . if the film works for you at all , it's likely to be as a guilty pleasure for the eye candy it parades before you . so true . the director never gets a credible performance out of any of the actors . speaking of cameras , garry phillips's cinematography is the one bright spot of the movie . using a blend of extreme close-ups set off center and stunning widescreen shots , he creates a look that's much better than the material deserves . of course , the lack of chemistry in what is really a lesbian love story , not a murder mystery , is the movie's biggest problem . but beyond that there are so many smaller problems that begin to grate on you . the dialog is not only trite and overblown -- " you lesbo ! " being one insult -- but hard to catch since the actors have a proclivity for speaking only in whispers . on the other hand , maybe missing some of the lines isn't such a bad thing after all . missing the entire movie , however , would be a better idea . it is not rated but would probably be nc-17 for strong sex scenes , pervasive nudity , language and some violent images . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
then again , perhaps that's reading too much into the plot . maybe it's just a love story between two people during troubled times . shot on high definition digital video , the film does have a compelling immediacy . what it doesn't have are characters whom we care one wit about . live or die , we couldn't care less . the film is in spanish with english subtitles . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
if it were an episode of a kid's television series , which is what it feels like , it would rank a little below average . tune into the disney channel on a random afternoon , and you'll find something similar and probably better . the three first-time screenwriters , jonathan bernstein , mark blackwell and james greer , couldn't think of any fresh material . the shame of it all is that some of the young actors manage to show some special sparks in a movie that's almost terminally bland . they both possess a likable spunk that makes them interesting even when their characters aren't . the adults are uniformly awful , especially robert carradine as max's doofus dad and larry miller as the school's unprincipled principal . and , like my dead audience , you probably won't be having much fun either . the surprise is that this junior high school comedy , which is aimed more to the seven-year-old set , doesn't have much in it that's funny for any age group , even the younger ones . it is rated pg for " some bullying and crude humor " and would be acceptable for kids of all ages . my son jeffrey , age 12 , who had trouble thinking of anything that he liked about the movie , gave it * 1/2 . he checked his watch frequently , something that i suspect everyone will be doing in this short movie that feels extra long . in the silicon valley , it will be showing at the amc and the century theaters . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
argue . argue . argue . that's how the robbers spend their time in bandits , directed clumsily by barry levinson . although they are supposedly the most successful bank robbers in the history of the united states , these two irritating characters appear to be smart guys acting dumb , or perhaps it's the other way around . in either case , after a half hour of their schtick , i was ready to yell out , " all right already . " thornton , channeling woody allen at his worst , plays the story's central character . the movie fails the laugh test miserably . i never laughed although there were a few members of my audience , including two women on either side of me , who went wild over it . terry kept staring at joe with a " this is stupid " kind of condescending look . i'm with terry . as bad movies love to do , bandits has a steve mcqueen movie playing on television in one of the scenes . i couldn't tell which one it was , but it had to have been better than bandits . bandits runs a long 2 : 05 . it is rated pg-13 for " some sexual content , language and violence " and would be acceptable for kids around 9 and up . in the silicon valley , it will be showing at the amc and the century theaters . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
strawberry and chocolate is the movie that asks the question : do you know the zodiac sign of your refrigerator and is its sign and yours compatible ? overall , the movie is a s-l-o-w and amateurish production yet with some quite special parts nevertheless . strawberry and chocolate is a classic romantic triangle with a few twists . the movie was made in cuba , and it is set in havana in the year 1979 . after this set up , the plot moves at a snail's pace . other than the need for some heavy editing , there are many other things wrong with the show . the sound editing is awful . many scenes sound like they were made in an anechoic chamber . the background noise that should be there is totally missing . the dialog is frequently awkward and unnatural . finally , the second most important part in the movie was miscast . i wondered sometimes if he had fallen asleep with his eyes open . what is good about the show ? the major joy of seeing this movie is to watch the acting of perrugoria . very convincing and fascinating . the acting of the more minor character of the neighbor as well as that of david's old girlfriend was quite good . finally , watching the images of cuba were like taking a glimpse into a forbidden land that time has forgotten . it is rated r for complete female and male nudity and for several scenes of heterosexual sex . it has no violence and only minor profanity . i agree with the r rating and do not think it is a movie for teenagers . overall , the bad outweighed the good for me so i gave it a thumbs down and awarded it * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . reviewed written on : february 10 , 1995 opinions expressed are solely mine & not meant to reflect my employer's . 
this is definitely a 90s movie . we have heavy drinking in half of the scenes , and it is all great coffee . in the 70s we had cocktails and certainly in the 80s we saw lots of wine , especially white wine as the beverage of choice . i guess with the 90s here , rather than having characters being plastered and passing out , we will have them wired and hyperactive . but i digress . nina takes a lover is a movie where not much happens and the tone of it all is highly subdued which is reflected in the dreamy music . overall , this can be a very soporific movie so don't go to the 9 : 30 showing . i would expect that the reaction of most people seeing this movie will range from mild boredom to a mild rapport with the characters . it is not a movie that is easy to get excited about or to dislike . laura san giacomo who was so wonderful , as was everyone else , in sex , lies , and videotape , plays a fairly reserved lover in this movie . spouses are not visible or talked about much--romance is . the script and the directing were done by alan jacobs who needed to put more oomph in both . i like the characters he created , but i kept hoping in vain for them to come alive . jacobs seemed interested in creating a mood piece with a message . he succeeded in the former although i wish he had more ambitious goals , and he failed in the latter . it was a technique i could have done without . the script makes an attempt at a big switch towards the end of the movie . i did not like nor buy this part at all . it felt as if they had gotten bad scores when test marketing the show , and they tacked on the changes as an attempt to make the movie more involving and to wake up the audience . the movie is too long at 1 : 40 . it is rated r for numerous sexual scenes and scenes of partial undress albeit , with one possible exception , there is no nudity . the movie would be fine for older teenagers . on the other hand , i do not recommend it to anyone , and i award it * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are solely mine & not meant to reflect my employer's . 
richie rich is a classic kid's tale retold and updated ( read more expensive and elaborate toys ) for the 90s . in this case , it is everything electronic . perhaps , bill gates will see this show and wonder if his kid in 10 years will be like this . now , that does seem real , but i digress . not here . in this show , he likes his million-dollar gadgets and would never consider wanting to be anything other than super rich . the reason to see the show has nothing to do with the silly plot above which goes on and on . the reason is a lot of extremely imaginative toys . i could never describe them . it is in the visuals that they are interesting . sounds boring , but it is quite fanciful . sad to sad , that the electronic toys and the goodie goodie family are not enough to carry the movie . on the bad side , why o' why do we have to have the bad guys shoot at the rich's with big realistic handguns ? they have no place in a kids' movie . also , on a small note , why did they put so much lipstick on culkin in some of the scenes ? i understand the greasy kid hairdo , but not the lipstick . i know his lips are red , but not that red . the show is a mixed bag . it has great gadgets , and is mostly a classic kid's fable a la the brothers grimm . on the other hand , we have all of those guns and the overall silliness of the show . in the end i gave the movie a thumbs down . my son said " it was good and not so good , " and he gave it a thumbs sideways . the movie runs too long at 1 : 35 , but does have a nice road runner cartoon on before it . it is incorrectly rated pg . for all of that realistic shooting , i would rate it pg-13 . be careful about taking kids under 7 or 8 as it may scare them . i give the movie * 1/2--mainly for the toys . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are solely mine & not meant to reflect my employer's . 
the madness of king george is a movie based on the play titled the madness of george iii . ( i have been told it was retitled for the us because american audiences during the test marketing thought it was a sequel and wondered what happened in parts i and ii , but i think that is just probably just another urban legend . ) many twists and turns from there with an ending you may have some trouble predicting if you are not up on your british history of that era . the historical story is fascinating and is the only reason to see the movie . the period costumes are well done , and the sets are carefully chosen . the acting is earnest , and hawthorne does try awfully hard to present a believable madman . on the bad side , the movie is extremely tedious and pedantic . for example , i lost count of how many times the scriptwriter had us hear about the color of the king's " water " and " stool . " moreover , we had to have numerous didactic lectures from doctors about the exact color of the king's " water " and much speculation on what the color meant . perhaps they were , but i wonder about the historical accuracy of this caricature . finally , although the actors tried to give their best performances , i found that i did not care about any of the characters as written , and this comes from a guy who has taken seven vacations to britain and who knows a lot of english history . the madness of king george runs an overly long 1 : 50 . it has no mpaa rating , but it is clearly a pg-13 show for a little profanity and for adult themes . this movie would be fine for any teenager . other than british historians , i do not recommend this movie to anyone , and i award it * 1/2 solely for the history i learned by watching it . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
it is a large movie painted on a vast canvas ultimately spanning almost a century . it then immediately switches to an isolated ranch in some of the most beautiful montana landscape you have ever seen . eventually , there are two girlfriends ( julie ormond and karina lombard ) as well plus lots of other minor characters . the biggest attraction for the movie is watching the visuals . the cinematography was perfect with 90% of the outdoor scenes carefully filmed in the last twenty minutes of twilight and always with the actors' hair back-lit by the setting sun . the indoor scenes were dark with the glow of candles or with light streaming in from the outside . travelogues never looked better . i expected to see someone selling land in montana in the lobby after the show ! unless you are a big fan of seeing hearts cut out of the bodies of animals and people or unless you feel you must see all of brad pitt's movies ( he is major handsome ) , i can see no reason to see this film other than as a long travelogue . the biggest problem i had with the movie was the script ( written by susan shilliday and bill wittliff ) and to a lesser degree the directing ( by edward zwick ) . there are so many ridiculous and unbelievable things these characters do that i ran out of fingers and toes counting them . totally unbelievable . i did not care about any of them . after forty-five minutes , i was looking at my watch hoping it would get better ( it actually got worse ) , and wondering when it would end . sad to say it ran for an incredibly long 2 : 13 . perhaps they are going to make it into a tv mini-series which is what it looked like anyway . it is correctly rated r for heavy violence . i recommend this movie only to those interested in relocating to montana . i award the movie * 1/2 and suggest all of the proceeds of the show be paid directly to the cinematographer . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . reviewed written on : january 20 , 1995 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
it is an almost no budget film that was made on location in new jersey about an hour from where i lived for many years . if you like quirky shows , the plot of this one has great potential . personally , i love this type of picture . in fact some of my favorite movies are sherman's march , always : but not necessarily forever , my dinner with andre , 35 up , eating raoul , and house of games--which all qualify as very strange and off-beat . clerks was filmed in a grainy black and white that has numerous contrast problems . the movie was written and directed by kevin smith . the actors seem to all be fresh out of acting 101 , and i will not list their names as i feel sure you know none of them . i read later that the lead actor works in the mailroom at at&t and is still waiting for his break into a movie with a budget . movies like this either work for you or they don't . this one frequently put me to sleep . i know there are better actors in new jersey , i remember seeing some excellent ones in the new jersey shakespeare festival every year . clerks is not a waste however . it is done as a series of vignettes . some of them do work and are quite funny as written if not as acted . if you go to the movie , listen to the dialog and forget the attempt at acting . some of the material is good and for that i award it * 1/2 . i do not recommend this movie to anyone . on the other hand , if you really like strange movies , you might go to this one and find it works for you--good luck . it is the sort of show that could become a cult classic . the movie runs a long 1 : 43 . it has no nudity or violence , but lots of explicit conversations and is correctly rated r . i think it would be acceptable for older teenagers . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
the final part in our trilogy about the intellectually challenged is a goofy movie . parts i ( forrest gump ) and parts ii ( dumb and dumber ) were live action films . the concluding piece is advertised as " walt disney presents : a goofy movie--it's hard to be cool when your dad is goofy " . a goofy movie stars the classic cartoon character of goofy . normally , goofy is given silly things to do . he then acts just as silly as his material , and it all works for some simple and harmless laughs . this time the producer ( dan rounds ) decided to cast goofy in a realistic role and test the bounds of the character while keeping his iq in double digits . in a goofy movie we find goofy as an apparently single dad . i got very tired very fast of watching the stereotyping . as one who has a good relationship with his son and who understands that it is both quantity and quality of time that matter , i found the cliches a bit hard to take after a while . my 6 year old and i went together to see the movie . he liked a few of the laughs but overall did not care for the movie that much . he got scared several times of something he could or would not identify--my guess is that it was the way the son treated the dad and the way the dad was shown as such a dunce . if they wanted to make a movie about goofy , then they should have found a better script for him . if they felt they wanted to talk about father and son relationships in a cartoon , then make the dad at least a little bit smarter and the teenager just a bit more caring . there was some parts of the show that were outstanding . i thought the colors were delightful ; the rose and purple pastels were especially lovely and soothing . the sets were imaginative as well so that watching the visuals were a delight--too bad i could not have turned off the sound . she was extremely cute without being suggestive . i think drawing realistic and attractive women or girls is hard to do in cartoons . ever gone to a new girlfriend's house being a little bit scared of what her dad might be like and how he might treat you ? well , welcome to your worst nightmare . a goofy movie is correctly rated g . there is nothing of the classic categories ( sex , drugs , violence , or bad words ) to offend . the movie runs a bearably short 1 : 17 . i do not recommend it to anyone nor does my son . i am not sure who the audience for this movie is . it is too juvenile for teenagers , but only teenagers could really understand max . i award the movie * 1/2 for making a beautiful film and for the character of the girlfriend . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
trial by jury is a thriller first and a courtroom drama second . all of these facts and much more including , i am sorry to report , a key twist at the end of the show you can learn by seeing the trailers as i have done already on 4 or 5 occasions . now , i ask you . does this sort of sound like a formula plot ? right you are and therein lies the major flaw in the film , the script . it is straight out of script writing 101 . in the first three quarters it has characters do very predictable things and do them s-l-o-w-l-y . this is only one of the small problems with the film's believability . i did not believe the characters during the first three quarters . just a bunch of actors reading formula dialog . in the last quarter , it just flat got ridiculous . i did not believe it at all . major suspension of disbelief is necessary to stay a believer till the end . he was miscast in his role , and the role was not written well or very bright . what a waste of a great actor . what the movie has going for it is two terrific looking leads in assante and whalley-kilmer . their looks and their acting i always find interesting . actually , i knew the show was in major trouble when a brief love scene involving whalley-kilmer , whom i think is one of the prettiest women on the planet , started to bore me and found me looking at my watch . even small details like assante's clothing provided intriguing images . finally , i must admit , that i love jury trial scenes even poorly done ones . they fascinate me . the movie runs about 2 hours and is rated r by the mpaa . there is a little nudity and a medium amount of violence . i think teenagers could see it if they like . on the other hand , i do not recommend the show to any age group , and i generously award it * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
in this movie adaptation , however , the shadow knows nothing , because the movie , from start to finish , is just an exercise in style . now don't get me wrong , this is great style . think of the feel of batman but without quite such depressing sets . think of batman , but with better special effects . okay , you have now successfully formed an image of the shadow in your mind . all this having been said , none of it matters . the director russell mulcahy uses the plot in the movie only to display and enhance the mood and the style of picture . all over the big apple , down buildings and between buildings , the shadow has strung these pneumatic tubes which no one ever seems to notice . although the technical ideas above were quite innovative , the script by david koepp wasn't . he should have worried some about character development and not gotten so carried away with the gadgets . the lighting , especially the lights and the shadows ( what else ) , are terrific . the cinematography ( stephen h . burum ) is dark like batman , but here it is made to be more serious than depressing . the shadow gets a correct pg-13 rating and runs too long at 1 : 50 . unless you are really into style and art decoration , i can not recommend this show . no one acts in it . the actors and actresses are all props merely to promote the mood . for the style i give it * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
white is a bitter sweet tragedy from polish director krzysztof kieslowski . the movie is in french and polish with english subtitles . the script written by krzysztof kieslowski and krzysztof piesiewicz has a few nice twists that are kind of hard to guess . the movie takes place mainly in poland . delpy's acting consists of standing around and looking beautiful . don't get me wrong she does a super job at that , but you do not need an actress to stand up and look terrific - they could have hired a fashion model . the movie's feel is that of a short story made into a movie . the only real complaint i have , other than there is not much substance , is that i found the ending too abrupt . perhaps red will be better ; i never got to see blue . the movie is rated r for reasons i can not figure out . it is clearly a pg-13 show . it runs 1 : 32 and has the real potential for putting you to sleep in parts . i give the movie * 1/2 for the acting of the male lead and some fun plot twists , but i can not recommend to anyone . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
he has crystal playing it too reserved . i would have preferred any of crystal's 10 minute academy award opening monologues for this movie . yes , there are funny scenes . the ongoing joke about the possibility of being bitten on the rear by a rattlesnake is the best . between the funny scenes is a fair amount of boredom . don't get me wrong , i did laugh many times , but they dragged the story out too much . it was 1 : 56 long , but there was not enough material here for even an hour and a half . the same writers as in city slickers , billy crystal , lowell ganz , and babaloo mandel , devised a clever plot , but the script itself , although it had a great ending , was slow going . city slickers ii is similar in quality to the other retread on the market now , beverly hills cop 3 , but bhc 3 has bigger laughs yet with even more boring parts in between . city slickers ii gets * 1/2 from me , and i suggest you pass it by . it is rated pg-13 and would be fine for teenagers if they have to see it . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . reviewed written on : june 11 , 1994 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
i went into the third installment of eddie murphy's beverly hills cop saga with very low expectations , but i must admit that it was better than i expected , i had a few good laughs , and it was nice diversion . on the other hand , i can not recommend it . there are some funny scenes . pinchot's machine gun , cd player , tv , and microwave oven combination and how murphy uses it is the only really hilarious scene in the show . so what was wrong with it ? the director , john landis , and lack of energy . i keep wanting to tell murphy to go get some caffeine - lots of it . the director's pacing , the editing ( dale beldin ) , and the way the director had murphy playing the role were all sad . it is rated r for bloody violence and filthy language . i guess it would be okay for teenagers . i give the movie * 1/2 as they were some good parts , and i managed to have an enjoyable time waiting for murphy to wake up periodically and act . first , my whole family is in the movie . if you look very carefully , you can see 3 ants way down on the ground . we are those ants ! we could not see us , but i know we are there . i will see us when i freeze frame that laser disc next year . maybe you can find us . second , they added many rides to great america to make it look more like an amusement park , and it was made by the people , paramount , that own the park ! it was fun the day we were there seeing all of the imported rides that were used only in the movie . the dinosaur ride looked especially neat . third , i have had dinner three times with bronson pinchot . he was really funny in person but kind of lonely . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . reviewed written on : june 4 , 1994 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
everyone i know from my friends to siskel and ebert have gone bananas over forrest gump . i saw it , and i was extremely disappointed . from big to philadelphia , i have seen and loved almost all of tom hanks's movies . in a nutshell , i found this one to be a long bore . i checked my watch frequently and got sleepy by the end of the movie although we went to the 5 : 30 showing . forrest gump is about a boy with a marginal iq . the good parts of the movie are all technical . gump manages personally to see numerous presidents and other historical figures . you will be amazed at how well the special effects work . the best , and only good performance in the movie , is hanks . his performance was amazing , but at times it was too mechanical - almost an automaton . this was the second central figure in the movie , and wright was a weak actress who gave no life to the part . why did they feel they had to have forrest switch to a totally different amazing feat every 10 minutes ? why not develop some aspects more ? it was almost like it was written by a committee and everybody got to write 10 minutes of the story . most of all , why didn't the director have people that were real and that you cared about more ? all were way too mechanical for my taste . i should point out that almost everyone disagrees with me although janet maslin of the n . y . times was not impress by the show so at least i am not totally alone . there was lots of crying in the theater hence one of the reasons it is making zillions at the box office . forrest gump is rated pg-13 for violence , a little nudity , discussions of sexual incest , battle carnage , etc . i saw many many grade school kids in the audience . frankly , i think that was a mistake . teenagers , fine , but this not a kids ( preteen ) stuff movie no matter how cute the previews may look . i give the film * 1/2 for technical merit and do not recommend it . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
ho hum . there were laughs - mainly of modest sized proportions . between laughs there were long periods of boredom . on the good side , jodie foster was wonderfully counter typecast as a sweet and comedic actress rather than the usual serious and hard edged characters she normally plays . granted she was always trying to outwit and cheat maverick , but on the surface she had this wonderful sweet smile . if you are of the i'd-be-happy-to-see-mel-gibson-reading-the-phone-book variety of mel gibson fan , then you will like this movie . he too has a nice smile in it and looks great as he always does . if they had edited down to an hour , it would have been a passable made for tv , maverick returns for one more episode , sort of show . there is a single simple problem with this movie . in the script by william goldman , there is almost nothing interesting that happens and what does happen are simple retreads of themes done countless times before . one more western without much new to say and with jokes that rarely work . maverick overextends its welcome running way over at 2 : 07 . it is a fairly wholesome show and gets a mild pg rating . i do not recommend it - you can always rent it later and skip to the few funny scenes . i give it * 1/2 for the few laughs and for foster's smile . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . reviewed written on : may 23 , 1994 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
belle de jour is a classic french film from 1967 that has been out of release for a couple of decades . belle de jour is by the famous director luis bunuel and stars the equally famous catherine deneuve as severine sevigny . her bouts of prostitution again feature s & m which is attempted to be presented as great fun and very playful . for anyone wanting a more serious treatment of prostitution , they should see the excellent , albeit quite depressing , 1986 movie working girls by lizzie borden . i'll let you find out the rest of the story by seeing the movie . i found the story unbelievable and very dated . i know the critics are going gaga over its rerelease . i do not buy it . she looks pretty degraded and unhappy to me even though she does start to smile some toward the end of the film . i thought the performance of all the actors , most especially that of deneuve , was wooden . it was as if the director wanted more of a tableaux that a motion picture . to the fans of this show , i say they can have it , i want nothing of it . belle de jour runs 1 : 40 which , with its loose editing by louisette hautecoeur , keep making me want to shout " okay , lets get this scene moving . " it is in french , but the english subtitles are easy to follow . it is correctly rated r for sadomasochism . there is little sex and almost no nudity . it would be okay for mature teenagers . i do not recommend the show , but i do give it * 1/2 for attempting to be innovative in its time . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
given how much i loved and was enchanted by like water for chocolate , i went to see a walk in the clouds with much excitement . the same director ( alfonso arau ) and the same cinematographer ( emmanuel lubezki ) did both pictures so my expectations were not unrealistic . both pictures have a look and a beauty that is almost unsurpassed , but more on that later . the aragons live in great spender in the napa valley where the movie was actually filmed . the ethnic heritage and their great wealth made me think of the gallo family albeit the gallos are italian-americans . this continuing family banter followed by brief scenes between paul and victoria is what the movie is all about . okay , let's cut to the chase . this movie was a huge disappointment for me . keanu reeves for all of his terrific looks can do only one thing well , action films . he was super in speed , and that is about it . he was pathetic in much ado about nothing and in little buddha . her again , he proves he needs more acting lessons and less modeling ones . the biggest problem in the movie is that there is no chemistry between the two stars . it is as if they are speaking to separate walls rather than to each other . unlike like water for chocolate , there is no magic here . i tried as hard as i could to like this movie , but other than the scenic beauty , it is like a meringue . there is nothing there when you bite into it . alberto sums up the problem with the movie when he says " there is something wrong here . the whole thing is wrong . " finally , the ending is ridiculous and worthy of someone who blessed the world with the realism and the wisdom of the karade kid movies . although it was hard to tell given the lines she was given , i believe that aitana sanchez-gijon has a lot of potential . she is certainly one of the most beautiful new actresses i have seen lately . you become obsessed with leaving your seat in the theater and jumping in . going to this movie is not a waste . this movie deserves at least an academy award nomination for cinematography and another for set design ( david gropman ) . the look of the yellow and greens of the leaves , the golden amber of sunsets on everything , and the constant backlighting of all of the characters are all worthy of monet . i could go on and on about how gorgeous this picture is . you have to see this scene to grasp its serenity and beauty . the infrequent black and white flashbacks and flashforwards provide an effective contrast . visually , not some , but every scene is a masterpiece . the music ( leo brower ) is quite dramatic and fits the mood of the show and the images very well . a walk in the clouds runs too long at 1 : 45 thanks to poor pacing and a lack of stronger editing by don zimmerman . the movie is rated pg-13 since it is an adult drama i guess . it is a mild pg-13 since there is no profanity that i can remember , no violence , no nudity , and no sex . any kid older than 9 should be able to see this show with no problems . on the other hand , i recommend this show only to people studying cinematographic techniques . for others , you are liable to leave the show bored and disappointed , and i recommend you pass on it . i give the movie * 1/2 only for the academy award quality cinematography . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . reviewed written on : august 11 , 1995 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
two absolute top-rated films , dances with wolves and the fugitive have been fused together by first time writer and director tab murphy to create the derivative last of the dogmen . this is a serious show that has quotes in its advertising that claim it is the movie that dances with wolves should have been . as the icing on the cake in this show , the narrator ( wilford brimley ) is given language by the writer that is either poetic language that is brilliantly evocative of an earlier age or total , pompous balderdash . you can choose . at first , i liked the flowery language , but soon i got sugar overload and found his cute little sayings sickeningly sweet . i suspect the viewers of this show will dichotomize into the lovers and the loathers . i found the show not to be a bad one , but merely one that rarely lived up to its potential . read the review with an open mind for you may be less cynical than i and may be awe struck by its beauty . the movie is full of one cliche after another . and so on . to give you a flavor of the cliched dialog you have to endure , gates tells the professor that she can not come along with him into the wilderness because : " i've seen this place reduce grown men to tears . it ain't no place for a woman . " the movie is extremely predictable . with a title like last of the dogmen , do you think they will find a lost indian tribe ? well , that sure settled that . there are some wonderful parts of the show . first , the dog zip who is played by zip is the sort of a friendly mongrel that every kid would love to have . too bad he is not in all of them . this part shows how strong this show could have been . the movie is set in the big sky area of montana . it spends a lot of time explaining the history of the place and of the indian tribes there . as you watch the gorgeous waterfalls and snow capped mountains all filmed in lovely , slightly hazy and overcast images by karl walter lindenlaub , you want to leave this mediocre show and go immediately and book a flight to montana . well , if you did , please call your travel agent back . oh well , maybe the rockies were booked that summer . beside the great cinematography and nice sets ( trevor williams ) , the music ( david arnold ) is quite dramatic . i wish the actors had gotten a chance to hear the music so they would have been more inspired . berenger and hershey are mediocre at best . the indian actors are never challenged and so show us little in the way of acting . overall , the problem in the movie is that it takes itself way too seriously . i kept waiting for murphy to lighten things up a bit . there is a great opportunity for a real romance between the leads , but not in this serious show . a little more realism and humanity would have helped . there is a single , token scene thrown in where the indians are having a comedy fest , but that scene came out of left field and did not fit with the tone of the rest of the film . not surprising , the end is overly dramatic and the least interesting and most predicable part of the plot . among many of its implausibility's , why when disaster is eminent would people set around and slowly converse about alternatives . they looked not like a tribe of warriors , but a bunch of octogenarian professors sitting around debating what to do while the building they are in is being set on fire . give these warriors some energy , please ! the narrator admonishes the audience that " sometimes you have to put your faith in what you can't see . in what you wish . " i guess my body was low on faith when i went to see last of the dogmen since its 1 : 59 was way too long for me . it is rated pg for 2 kisses , some arrow in the back type of violence , and adult themes . it has no nudity or partial nudity , and no sex . it would be fine for kids over say 9 , and there were a couple of kids that age with their parents behind me . although there is a great dog , a nice mystery , beautiful scenery , and impressive music , i can not recommend this movie to you . it rates * 1/2 in my book . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . reviewed written on : septmeber 15 , 1995 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
he is the director , the editor , and to the extent there is a script , he wrote it . as in most of his movies , he also plays a role , albeit a small role in this film . jaglom is arguably the most independent of film makers in america today . he makes his movies for himself and allows the audience to view them much as your neighbor might invite you over for some home movies . he is frequently criticized for being self-indulgent , but to me that is his charm . although jaglom films can be pretentious one moment and totally off the wall the next , they always push the edge of the envelope . it was one of my top ten movies of the 80s . jaglom does not mind experimenting which means some of his movies are turkeys , but others are brilliant successes . i found last summer in the hamptons to be a minimally enjoyable movie , but one that , nevertheless , has a certain fascination . it starts with the strains of " accentuate the positive " . this choice of this tune has a meaning you may want to ponder during the slow parts of the film . in typical jaglom style the picture is shot ( hanania baer ) frequently with a single handheld camera and too many pans and zooms that leave the audience dizzy . it is as if jaglom is saying this himself . as if he is saying , i only make these art house pictures and although i claim not to care , i wish one would become a major hit that would make me filthy rich . she has long scenes where she converses with people acting and talking like these animals . a great but failed attempt by jaglom at creativity . none of the rest of the characters in this movie are the least bit believable , but jake and especially trish are . they have a serious problem to deal with and the movie handles the touchy subject of incest honestly and amazingly well . last summer in the hamptons runs overly long at 1 : 45 . it is rated r for some bad language and for the incest themes . it is a soft r and would be fine for teenagers . although i can not recommend the movie , i'm glad i gave it a try . for the risk taking and for the excellent acting by melissa leo and jon robin baitz , i give it * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
the movie was unique in that it is the only children's movie i know that shows adults at their jobs . what really bothered me about the movie was the stereotypes it showed the kids about what it means to have a job and what capitalism is all about . in the movie , the family has a life of easy with every gadget possible , i . e . , a high and comfortable standard of living . this was obtained solely from george jetson's salary . the movie made you hate such a terrible and inconsiderate boss . the movie then teaches children how this profit thing is accomplished . this is a plant that was so automated that one person ran it before . a great economics lesson . in the end the children have learned that capitalism is all about spoiling the ecosystem and exploiting workers . sad . jetsons : the movie is rated g and runs less an hour and a half . i give the movie * 1/2 as they had about 10-15 minutes worth of cleaver ideas and fun gadgets - certainly not enough for a full-length movie . i suspect , on the other hand , that little ones will not realize or care that they are being brainwashed and will think the movie is a fun little diversion . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
threesome is one of those movies where you must be able to suspend disbelief from the start ; otherwise , the movie has no chance of working . sure . actually , it was made plausible enough in the movie ( it is actually a suite with a private single ( woman ) , a private double ( men ) , and a shared bath ) that suspending disbelief turned out to be easy for me . the premise of the movie is that person a is attracted to person b , b to c , and c to a whereas b is not attracted to a , nor c to b , and nor a to c . this simple equation gets much more complex as the movie advances . the show has several points to commend it . the plot is quite intriguing . it is easy to get swept up in some of the scenes and have vicarious fun along with them . boyle's smile and physical emotions were well done and catching . i did not believe either of the male characters . with the same plot , but a much better script writer ( andrew fleming ) , a recasting of all of the roles except for boyle , tighter editing , and perhaps a different director ( andrew fleming ) , this movie could have worked since it actually had a lot of possibilities . it was not a bad movie , but did not come close to what it could have been . threesome runs only 1 : 33 , but seems longer . it is rated r for the seriousness of its material i guess . i can not recommend it as constructed although it had good potential . for boyle's acting and energy , i award it * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : april 9 , 1994 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
balto is a cartoon movie for kids . although i was bored silly by it and think it contains unacceptably poor quality animation , nevertheless , my son is a testament to the fact that young kids may go for it regardless . quickly the movie shifts to a cartoon version of the tale . this romance is a take off on the one from lady and the tramp , but like most of this highly derivative movie , it is a pale imitation of the genuine article . the first part of the movie has balto upset because he is not a full blooded dog . if he could only see what he is . " the movie is about balto's bravery and his clash with steele who would rather see people die than balto get the glory . many heroic scenes follow and balto muses , " since when do you need a pedigree to help someone " . still he has his doubts , but boris is always by his side with words of encouragement like , " let me tell you something balto . so why was i bored with such an inspiring tale of the original iditarod sled race ? well , i have three main criticisms of the movie . first , if you have seen most of the old disney feature length cartoons , you will see little new here . almost every scene is one you will swear you have seen before . as one of many examples , the sled goes over a breaking bridge , and balto has just enough strength to pull the sled up when the bridge collapses and the sled starts sliding into the canyon . i have seen scene this many times before . none . compare this to any disney film especially to lady and the tramp which this movie most closely resembles . every character there came alive with distinctive , interesting , compelling , and believable voices . here they speak in dull tones . there is not a single character that was believable , the worse being steele . moreover , the script ( elana lesser and cliff ruby ) has almost no laughs . one of the few times i heard much laughter in the theater was when one character hit another with a snowball . now , if that scene , which is duplicated in a hundred other movies , is the best the writers can come up with , you know the movie is in serious trouble . third , the animation is pathetic and has a two dimensional stick figure feel to it . the quality of the images here pale ( pun intended ) in comparison . let me give some examples . the colors are all washed out and the characters , see especially the grizzly bear , are not drawn with sufficient detail and colors . the cels look like they have been sitting in the son too long and the color has been bleached out . this was not just some problem with the print i saw because the live action part was full of rich colors . take as another example the lights in the cartoon . lights in balto are usually done as a ball of light that is bright for two feet and then the light disappears entirely . there is none of the natural tapering off of real light . compare this to the realistic lighting effects that are common today in feature length cartoons . finally , there are a lot of falling snow scenes . none of the animals get even a speck of snow on them during these snow falls because i guess that would make them slightly trickier to draw . balto drags on for only 1 : 14 . it is rated g and would not offend anyone . i think balto is fine for kids of any age . my ever agreeable son has given a thumbs up to all of the 18 different movies we took him to this year , and this movie was no exception . i can not recommend that anyone waste their time with balto - better to see toy story for a third or fourth time . since jeffrey did like the film and never got scared , since there is nothing in it to offend anyone in it , and since we are supposed to be big hearted during the christmas season , i am most generously awarding balto * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : december 27 , 1995 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
eye for an eye is a thriller about vigilantism . depending on your point of view , it is either a disturbing real drama about a mother trying to avenge her daughter's killer or is a poorly acted , manipulative , and ridiculous soap opera . although i am firmly in the latter camp , i should point out my wife was very upset by the movie but thought it was excellent . although the audience is forced to see it all , karen can only listen . in the great tradition of recent american justice , the killer is set free because the evidence , although conclusive , is not large enough to divide in two so the defense have part . that is what the movie is purportedly all about . actually , it rarely rising about the level of cheap thrills , and thanks to a ridiculous and poorly written script ( amanda silver and rick jaffa ) , its believability quotient is quite low . although the rape and murder part is realistic , the vigilante portion , which occupies most of the movie , feels highly contrived . director john schlesinger takes four brilliant and accomplished actors and , somehow , manages to get little out of them . i can think of many movies each one of them has made where they were great . take for example , sally field's somewhat similar role in not without my daughter . there her emotion was intense and believable . she is too reserved and just not convincing in eye for an eye . ed harris is not given much of a part and is unable to take what lines he is given and do much with them . although the writers reserve the worst blather for the cops , the rest of the script is not much better . the script is simplistic and predictable . i found the ending , which it is telegraphed way in advance to the audience , to be too abrupt . in the only almost decent piece of acting , keifer sutherland does a passing job as a twenty-six year old delivery man for catalina liquors . his performance is one dimensional , but at least he is suitably creepy . the minor characters are even weaker than the four leads . she demonstrates little visible talent which , to be honest , is consistent with many other movies i have seen her in . there is a single funny scene in the show . suffice it to say that learning self-defense does have its downsides . there is one other good part , the sets by stephen hendrickson provide a strikingly gritty view of a poor section of the city . eye for an eye runs 1 : 43 but thanks to the slow pacing by editor peter honess , it dragged a lot . certainly , not the fast pace you would expect in a thriller . very bloody and potentially , extremely disturbing . i would not let teenagers go unless they were quite mature . i would be especially careful of letting teenagers girls go , lest they end up with nightmares for a long time . i can not recommend this show to anyone , and i give it * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
the movie is set in concord , mass . in what appears to be somewhere between say 1800 and 1890 . i lied . these five perfect females have a few males around them at times for decoration , but it is the women's show . the acting is all incredibly shallow , but this is a fault of the script they were given . the characters are two dimensional stick figures . they do absolutely no wrong . if they had made them more believable and less sugary sweet , one could have cared about them when tragedy struck . as it was , i just felt like the script was being manipulative . yes , maybe this is a problem with the book as well . frankly , i do not remember the novel that well . it seemed like half of her dialog were sermons on the need for female equality . i had no problem with what she was saying , but it was delivered so preachy that it seemed stilted and unreal . i found myself wondering if the book gave this subject so much emphasis or if this was a little revisionist writing . on the good side , you have never seen more lovely scenes of new england snow ( actually filmed in victoria , canada ) . curier and ives could not have done it better . the cinematography inside was equally stunning with wonderful warm candlelight glow yet bright enough to be able to see things well . finally , i loved the last minute of the show . the outdoor images there were striking and almost moving . the movie runs way too long at 1 : 50 . i lost track of how many times i looked at my watch wondering how much longer i had to sit there and endure it . it is rated pg but should have been g since there is no sex , nudity , violence or even a single gosh darn . the only reason for the pg rating is that some of the themes ( sickness and death ) are more mature . i do not recommend this show to anyone . nevertheless , i suspect there is a large audience for this movie especially among girls from say 10 to 16 . i give it * 1/2 strictly for the setting and the cinematography . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : december 28 , 1994 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
the birdcage is a well constructed one joke movie that audiences seem to love and that some critics like and others don't . this critic admired robin williams's performance as well as some of the minor actors , but found the film's depiction of gay people more insulting to them than funny . then again , perhaps i am too sensitive or maybe i just want more from a movie than caricature . the birdcage is based on the french film la cage aux folles . although the other male singers in the club are quite convincing as females , albert isn't and looks more like a male actor trying to play a transvestite . this is consistent with lane's performance . although i found williams believable as gay , lane overacted so much that i never found his character believable . the screen adaptation by elaine may ridicules senator dole by name many times in order to make the movie topical and to make sure that audience knows they are serious about the republican hypocrisy point . let's cut to chase . the reason i do not like the show is the repeated single joke . every time he hits the pinkie , the audience roars . in general , every exaggerated gay behavior sends the audience wild . i found the antics demeaning to gays and highly repetitious . the audience gets to laugh at him a lot , and i do mean " at " him , because he can not walk in shoes without falling on everyone and because he is portrayed as both a stupid character and one whose sole , supposed charm is that he has a strange accent . this character is the most insulting of them all . director mike nichols should have been ashamed to have used such cheap shots . there are some lines i liked . albert , trying his best to act macho , answers in an attempted deeper voice with , " how do you think i feel ? there are two aspects of the show that deserve special mention . full of bright colors of limes , yellows , and roses . the costumes , especially those of armand's done by stephen shubin , are both outlandish and visually compelling . there is one actress in the movie that plays the secretary to val's biological mother . she is not listed anywhere on the web , which really bothers me . i know i have seen her somewhere before but i can not figure out where . if anyone knows , i wish they would drop me a line . she has a trivial part in the film , it is just that i can not figure out where i saw her before . the birdcage runs a little too long 1 : 58 thanks to editor arthur schmidt . the film is rated r for some mild language . there is no sex , nudity or violence . the film should be fine for teenagers . although i do not recommend this show , i should point out in fairness that my wife liked it and was laughing right along with most of the rest of the audience . i suspect the film will make a bundle . i give the movie * 1/2 for william's performance plus the well done minor performances of flockhart and wiest , but i found little worth rewarding in the rest of the cast and found the script demeaning to gays and insulting to republicans . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
it is a highly atmospheric and , some would say , erotic tale of two sad and lonely people . the message of the film appears to be that we are trapped and life is hopeless . although the chinaman is filthy rich , only 31 years old , and handsome enough to be a fashion model , he has little confidence and looks so sad you think he is about slash his wrists at any moment . i am always a little sad . i'm like my mother . " actually , everyone in the movie seemed to suffer from major depression . in an attempt , i guess , to find meaning in their life , the two protagonists spend over half of the movie with their clothes off and most of this time is spent doing sex . the sex is certainly not erotic and is mainly exhausting . they don't seem to enjoy any of it and watching them do it is about as much fun as watching athletes doing one wind sprint after another to get in shape for a track meet . i saw the videotape version where scenes deleted so that could get an r rating were added back in . i suspect the movie was better in the released theatrical version . jane march , whose only other film was color of night , shows little acting ability . color of night was number one on my worst films of 1994 list , and she showed a lack of talent in that movie as well . she has to say one pedantic line after another , and overall , the narrator's part is just too wordy . director jean-jacques annaud has the actors pause frequently in their dialog so the audience can fully ponder the drivel they have just uttered . actually , the best part of the movie is some wonderful cinematography ( robert fraisse ) that has a sepia tone look to it . the film transports you to a long ago era and makes you feel as if you are there . now if you could just get rid of those actors and actresses populating the scenery , . . . it is rated r for non-stop sex and nudity . there is no violence . the film would be fine for most teenagers . although i can not recommend this depressing film , i did like some of the technical aspects so i am giving it * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
it is an iranian film about the preparations for the coming persian new year . the movie is told in almost real time and starts one and a half hours before the beginning of the new year when the people in teheran are in a frenzy making sure that everything is ready . excitement is in the air . it was at this point in the show that my guilt began . how could i not be liking a show that was trying so hard ? clearly director jafar panahi was doing his best to craft a sweet little slice of life piece , and here he had gotten himself a girl that has no screen presence and more over was about as much fun to listen to as someone scraping their fingers down a blackboard . playing a role of the little girl that everyone wished would go away , she could do , but here so was supposed to be the charming lead character . aida mohammadkhani plays razieh as a very unsympathetic character . oh well , i though , the mother is sweet and the brother is not too bad , perhaps the only flaw , albeit a large one , will be the miscast lead . soon i was to find another aspect of the story as infuriating as aida mohammadkhani's performance , namely the show's sound by said ahmadl and mojtaba mortazavi . rarely is it that the sound becomes a big detraction , but it is in the white balloon . striving for authenticity , i guess , the director has background sounds frequently drowning out the actors . now , loud music is one thing , but the audience has to endure a cacophony of obnoxious traffic noises , radio talk shows blasting out from hidden boom boxes , and most irritatingly of all , off screen people , especially the unseen older brother inside the house , yelling at other people . it made me want to escape the theater and go sit in some peaceful spot to give my ears a rest . not a pleasant time . the script by abbas kiarostami is minimalist and is need of a rewrite . we are left with a story that works or doesn't solely based on the intrinsic charm of the lead character . so what is good about the show ? mohsen kafili and fereshteh sadr orfani deliver nice performances . the music , when it is there , is quite pleasant . most of all , i give the producer ( kurosh mazkouri ) a lot of credit for attempting such a sweet little tale . it is too bad the execution is so flawed . as a critic , there is nothing worse than having to give a thumbs down to something that you want desperately to like , but can not . it is oh so much easier to err on the side of grade inflation . giving movies thumbs down has the potential for generating a plethora of complaining letters ranging from polite disagreements to diatribes . if you overpraise a movie , all you get is silence . when i confessed that i did not like forest gump , burnt by the sun , and the birdcage , i got a wide range of letters , but most people claimed it proved how stupid i was not to have liked the movie since they and the rest of known world liked it , end of argument . as somerset maugham said , " people ask you for criticism , but they only want praise . " the white balloon runs 1 : 25 , but feels a lot longer . it is in farsi with english subtitles . it has no mpaa rating , but would probably be g . the show would be fine for kids of all ages , but i suspect most will be as bored with it as i was . i can not recommend this attempt at a sweet little tale , but i give the film * 1/2 for trying hard and for a couple of decent performances by the mother and the younger brother . actually , i fear that i getting too softhearted , and * 1/2 may be too generous . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
as disney loves to do , it is rereleasing to the big screen , an animated movie it has yet to release on video , oliver & company ( 1988 ) . why they decided to hold this one back for another theatrical run before it makes its inevitable transition to tape is beyond me . this is one of the weakest disney movies in years . why these juvenile delinquents and their even worse masters are considered appropriate material for the 3-8 set that is most likely to see this movie is a conundrum . dodger eventually will allow that , " hey , you're okay for a cat , " but at first considers him a pest . this is a little kids' show ? georgette's motto is , " perfect isn't easy , but it's me . " there are two good characters in the show , jenny and oliver , but most are mediocre . the ones of fagan and mr . sykes are inappropriate for young kid's movies . the film would have been stronger if both of these characters had been written out and the gang had led totally by dodger . moreover , fagan is so poorly written as to be an embarrassment . the script has few ideas and is bad need of a rewrite . the paucity of ideas is addressed by introducing unnecessarily frightening images . the drawings are colorful and pretty , especially in the night sequences . overall , however , they saved money way too often by making scenes where almost nothing moves , and they excessively pan the cameras to create the feel of action . a . c . redford ) itself is full of a heavy beat that will keep the kids moving with it , but the songs are imminently forgettable . it is rated g , but i would be very careful with kids under 5 lest they be significantly scared . my son jeffrey ( almost 7 ) liked the movie as he almost always does , but his dad was not impressed . i do not recommend it , but i generously award it * 1/2 because i don't want to be too tough on any film with a cute kitty . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
hollywood loves to remake popular shows . when it is too soon to do a remake , it likes to take a recent movie and reconstitute it with slightly different ingredients . in director james foley's fear , not to be confused with gregory hoblit's excellent primal fear , writers christopher crowe and james foley take fatal attraction and repackage it with teenager lovers rather than adults and hope for an instant hit . the romantic obsession part works marginally well , but the film's commentary on teenagers and their relationships with their parents is insightful and worth hearing . the huge downfall in the picture , is that the writers run out of ideas , so they transform the last thirty minutes of the film into a bad , tasteless , and frightening horror flick . most horror pictures you can ignore because they are so hokey and unbelievable , but the tolerably good first part of the film sets you up to care about the people in fear so the ending is much more disturbing that any unrealistic blood and gore film would be . it gives you premature wrinkles . " the film does a good job of showing what can happen to a girl devoid of morals like margo . i need you . you're my only friend . " the audience is provided with both views . one of main ingredients of the film is the massive musical overscoring by carter burwell . the film reminds you of those cars that drive down your street with zillion watt amps that rattle your prized china so that you think it will all break . the sound is so loud you almost need ear plugs and turning it down would not have been possible since other parts of the film are quite soft . moreover , the music is so overly dramatic in parts as to be ridiculous . the film is correctly rated r for gory and frightening violence , animal mutilation , crack smoking , some bad language , a little sex , but no nudity . the horrific images are enough to give you nightmares for a week . on the good side , i must be honest that the movie does feature a genuinely erotic roller coaster ride . given the threatening level of violence against teens and their parents i would recommend that no teenagers see this film although with the teen heartthrob stars in it , i am sure they will . there were certainly a lot of them in the audience . based on the first part of the film i was leaning toward a mild thumbs up for what the movie said about the problems of teens and of relationships with their parents , but after the ending , i can not recommend it to anyone , and i wish i had never ever seen it . disturbing . for the good first part , i am giving it overall a * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
if creating a non-offensive movie filled with sweet dinosaurs who have had a lot of time on their hands and not much to do is a measure of success , then the movie accomplishes what it set out to do . young kids , say those under 8 , will find the film pleasantly diverting albeit not highly memorable . adults and older children will find little to hold their interest . moreover , wild dinosaurs will probably not be on their best behavior in the museum and will treat the visitors as delectable little lunch treats . i will not go into all of the logical flaws here since this is a kids show afterall . personally , i think p . t . barnum would have preferred professor screweyes plans as more lucrative , but p . t . did not make an appearance in the film . after the set up of the plot , not a lot happens . the characters are all sweet enough , too sweet if anything , but the script by patrick shanley based on the book by hudson talbott gives them little to do and few lines of any merit . it is correctly rated g and if there was an mg ( much less than g ) category , it would get it . these characters would not even think an offensive thought . my son jeffrey ( almost 7 ) liked the movie , but i can not recommend it . i do give it * 1/2 for its wholesomeness . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
what is the worst thing that can happen to you in a movie theater ? sitting next to a group of people who not only talk incessantly back to the screen , but who say nothing but inanities and bathroom humor . well , welcome to your worst nightmare , mystery science theater 3000 : the movie . mst3k's format is they take an old science fiction movie and make fun of it with non-stop jabbering . they are forced to watch old sci-fi movies , but end up enjoying them . mike and his two mechanical buddies are shown silhouetted in the bottom of the screen talking back to the movie which occupies the rest of the screen . in mst3k there are also scenes without benefit of the old movie . the laughs here are rare . the only piece of dialog i like is when crow tells the others , " i calculated the odds of this succeeding versus doing something very stupid , and i decided to go ahead . " sort of like what producer jim mallon did when he decided to make a feature length movie of something people had tired of seeing on television . i have never seen this island earth before and the best part of mst3k is getting to see it . the worst part is the non-stop rambling by mike and the robots . i guess i must confess my prejudices . i watch little television , and when i have channel surfed past this show in the past on tv , i have not been impressed . the concept is fine , but the implementation , thanks to director jim mallon and writers michael j . nelson , trace beaulieu , jim mallon , kevin murphy , mary jo pehl , paul chaplin , and bridget jones is fatally flawed . if you run out of ideas for dialog , admit it and cut back to only the material worth filming . moreover , the characters do not have to suffer from diarrhea of the mouth . let the old film speak for itself most of the time , and then a few jabs will prove much funnier . i can not print mst3k's bathroom humor in this g rated review , but think of the type of tasteless commentary that a 9 year old might come up with as vulgar humor , and you get the idea . this is supposed to be funny ? there were a few members of the audience who laughed frequently , but most were like me and just stared at the screen . there are a couple of funny parts . if you think about it , some of the titles people get in movie credits are pretty esoteric . perhaps because they were not interrupting a better movie , i liked most of their jokes during the credits . if they had taken this island earth and perhaps some other films in this 50s sci-fi genre , they would have had the core of a fascinating documentary which would have been much better than mst3k . alternatively , if they felt they had to stay with this contrived format , the writers should have drastically limited how often mike and the robots should speak . as it is , i was constantly wanting to scream at them , " shut up ! " mystery science theater 3000 : the movie runs a mercifully short 1 : 14 . it is correctly rated pg-13 for bad language and gross humor . there is no sex , nudity or violence . given the setup of the film , there is no reason why they did not make a g or at most a pg show . the crudeness of the script detracted dramatically from the quality of the movie . done right this should have been a show fine for my seven year old . thank goodness , i did not bring him . i do suspect the film will be okay for most kids over 9 or 10 since by then they are all too familiar with crude humor . i do not recommend the film , although loyal fans of the show will probably enjoy it . i give it * 1/2 solely because i did enjoy seeing parts of this island earth . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
you think you have already seen this film a dozen times ? well , you probably have . this film is pure formula from beginning to end . when that isn't enough she tells her team , " if you'll show me some stuff about basketball , i'll show you some stuff about winning . " what a trite script . they have no respect for authority and totally ignore coach saroka in the first part of the picture . you can probably write the rest of the picture yourself . in a vast wasteland , there is something special about the show . the performance by rhea perlman manages to stand out in a pedestrian script with plodding direction . i have never thought of her as having much talent , but she does shine through this pool of sludge . i think some of the actors on the basketball team may have some acting ability , but their parts were such caricatures , that it is hard to say with any degree of confidence . it is rated r for bad language and for drug usage among teenagers shown as being a cool way to pass the time when you are bored . i would be happy if teenagers would pass on this show , but i guess it would be okay for mature ones . actually , i think the intended demographics for the show is probably males between the ages of 13 and 18 . i found nothing new here other than a fine performance by perlman so i am giving the film a thumbs down and awarding it * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
from the director ( jan de bont ) of last year's best action movie , speed , we have twister about teams of risk taking meteorologists chasing tornadoes . surprisingly , twister is one boring movie peppered with some nifty effects . it was so bad that had it not been for wanting to see all the special effects , i would have been ready to walk out . since the characters are not believable , you do not care if they come into harm's way , and hence the special effects , although technically impressive , are never frightening . as melissa ( jami gertz ) says in the show about another subject , " funny thing is . i'm not that upset . " i felt that way about the tornadoes in the film . twister is actually three movies for the cost of one . finally , there are the special tornado effects demonstrations by industrial light and magic . the film makes you think that a lot of people living in the tornado belt have tornado shelters . this is just not true . i saw one in my entire life , and that was at someone's house who was afraid the commies were going to drop the big one on him . also not considered in the film are the issue of warnings . so what . what were we going to do ? also , if you are warned all of the time , you soon learn to either ignore it or just worry a lot . all of this notwithstanding , i was able to suspend disbelief , but the film is so bad it didn't help . they drive a bunch of beat-up vehicles that look like they will fall apart at any moment . the original script by michael crichton is ridiculous . he should stick to books . beside the trite lines , the movie telegraphs every punch for some reason . aren't they supposed to be trying to scare us ? consider just one example . for some reason the tornado chasers decide to stop at a drive-in movie to get a cup of coffee while the drive-in is playing the horror classic the shining . what do you think will happen ? the setup is so contrived . look , the special effects are just that , special in this movie . they are technically brilliant , but without a good script and characters that come alive , after a while i found the effects repetitious and boring . technically brilliant certainly , but stuck in a lifeless movie . other than the technically impressive special effects , i liked seeing hunt and paxton . hunt is so smart , tough , and sensual all at once . paxton is a great minor actor i have enjoyed for a long time . as much as i was glad to see them again , i never found their characters in the movie believable . the show is funny in parts as when a large cow keeps flying by them as in the wizard of oz . finally , kudos for the nice computer graphics . realistic without being overdone . twister runs 1 : 45 . it is rated pg-13 . there is no sex , no nudity , almost no bad language and no violence other than the natural violence caused by tornadoes . the shots of the tornadoes trivializes the human suffering and dwells mostly with flying objects and property damage . the film would be fine for any kid over say 8 . there is no show ; there are only special effects , and these are not enough for me to recommend this disappointing film . to be fair , i should point out that my wife liked the film . the large audience where i saw it was pretty subdued , so i do not know how much most people will like it . i give the film * 1/2 , but only for the special effects . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : may 10 , 1996 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
the characters are mildly cute , the villains are unbelievable caricatures , and the lovable animals are the best part . this makes for cinematic fare that the whole family can watch without any risks . the kids are not challenged , and the adults may be a bit bored , but as homogenized albeit bland escapist entertainment , it delivers . as the show begins , the lush cinematography by victor j . kemper and the nostalgic sets by alex tavoularis evoke a warm feelings in the viewers . suburbia never looked better . there are wide and long green lawns with tall oaks . some of the houses even have classic white picketed fences . in my area these would be multimillion dollar homes , but that is a technicality ; it feels middle class . at this point the film has made visual promises to the viewer that it never fulfills . would that they had made a real show based on those first few moments . they have many discussions about whether alice should work or not . all of this little mini-drama notwithstanding , the movie is actually a slapstick comedy . we're goldfish people . we're ant farm people . we're not dog people . " none of this is done with even an attempt at believability . all over the house are large , and clearly fake , animal paw prints in mud . through out the show , the slapstick humor relies on one sight gag after another , like the time beethoven ties up some bad guys' chairs and drags them all over the neighbor . the dog eats the food off the table , now that's really original , and he shares an ice cream cone with a kid . i found little of this funny . have you ever noticed that if a character in a movie has those extra thick glasses , they are always portrayed as evil ? what a stereotype of people with severe sight problems . dean jones is simply awful in the film . the material , from the script by edmond dantes and amy holden , that jones gets like wanting to shoot large dogs to try out bullets that explode on impact is even worst than his acting . charles grodin is an extremely accomplished comedic actor . his acting is so detached and lifeless that it is close to an out of body experience . too bad the writers did not spend more time on character development . each actor is given the outlines of a character , but it is never filled in . most promising is nicholle tom . i hope to see her again . finally , the finale is the best part of the picture and the only one with sufficient energy . it is rated pg for reason that escape me . there is no sex , nudity , violence , and only one mild cuss word . certainly younger kids might be frighten by it , but i think it will all go over their heads , so i think the picture would be fine for kids of any age . my son jeffrey ( age 7 ) liked the picture when he saw it on video for the first time this week , but i was not impressed . there is not enough there for me to recommend it , and i am giving it * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : may 9 , 1996 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
the reason he had so much control is because he would not produce her play claiming it was " too disgusting even for us . " i can not even repeat its name in this g rated review of an r rated film . the best thing going for this basically worthless film is the strong and effective performance by lili taylor . the slow editing ( keith reamer ) and the almost non-existent music ( john cale ) of the film is in sharp contrast to the vibrant and energetic trailers for the picture . i was impressed by the trailers . warhol is right about the play being crude . the longest excerpt we hear has to do with everyone eating excrement . i had a lot of trouble trying to figure out why this picture was made . what was the director trying to accomplish ? i finally decided perhaps the message was about the shallowness of the 60s drug culture in general and of andy warhol in particular . he answers , " it's easier than painting . " i shot andy warhol runs 1 : 40 . it is rated r . there is nudity , explicit sex of many flavors , some violence , bad language , and lots of smoking and drug usage . i would only let quite mature teenagers see it . i can not recommend this film whose only claim to fame , other than the great performance by lili taylor , is its attempt to shock and to show us the nihility of the 60s drug culture and of andy warhol . for taylor's performance i give the movie * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : may 16 , 1996 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
lamerica is a bleak picture about modern day albania , which is an oxymoron . the albania shown in this film , which i have no reason to believe is inaccurate , is a dreary place of abject poverty - sort of the antithesis of a vacation haven . shows about measurable conditions can be interesting and rewarding . lamerica's purpose , on the other hand , seems to be to shock us with the poverty while weaving an opaque tale . the show has a plethora of scenes of the staring masses either charging for food donations like animals of sitting around staring at the strange foreigners with morbid fascination . the old age homes are dark and worse than most concentration camp pictures i have seen . the people all have a quarter of an inch of caked on dirt , they walk like zombies from a low budget horror picture , and many have missing limbs . the script by gianni amelio , andrea porporati , and alessandro sermoneta is overly earnest and not very memorable , but it does have one good line i remember . no water today . maybe tomorrow . " i was not impressed with any of the acting , but carmelo di mazzarelli's performance was the most obscure and least effective of the bunch . lamerica runs way too long at 1 : 55 . it is in italian and some albanian , all with english subtitles . the film is not rated . given some of the strong images and the adult themes , it would probably get an r , but perhaps it could qualify for a pg-13 . it would be fine for any teenager . this is the sort of art house film with which many critics and art house patrons resonate . to me , however , it is nothing more than a chronology of poverty without a compelling script . i know the writers and director wanted me to feel sorry for the albanians . i do . more than that , i see little purpose in the film . you can overpraise a bad artistic film and no one will care , but dislike an earnest one like this , and people are up in arms over the critic's " stupidity . " i once gave a mediocre review to burnt by the sun , and i think half the russians in the world wrote me unflattering letters . finally , i give the film * 1/2 for its seriousness . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : may 13 , 1996 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
this crushes agba's heart because he loves the horse so . on board the ship , disaster strikes , as it always does on board ships in stories like this . once in france , the horses are not very welcomed . although they should be prime racing horses , the french find them inferior because they are afterall , smaller than normal . only sham is saved so that he can do menial chores pulling a wagon . from there , you can write the rest of the story yourself . pretty much what you think will happen does . nevertheless , the film is about agba and navin chowdhry gives a miserable and lifeless performance as agba . this is a movie that tries first and foremost to be wholesome . it succeeds . on the other hand , as compelling entertainment , it does not deliver . even my amiable son jeffrey ( age 7 ) , who tends to like every single movie he sees , found it kind of boring . if you want to see a great story about horses , try black beauty ( 1994 ) . it is rated pg , but it is really more a g film . i am not quite sure why it got the pg rating . it would be fine for any kid , but i suspect the slow pace and the lack of an involving story may lose the attention of most children . i can not recommend this show whose only claims to fame are that it is about horses and that it is for whole family . i give it * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
the horseman on the roof ( le hussard sur le toit ) is an exercise in style . secondarily , it is both a romance and a horror show . equally well , it is macabre since it has more needlessly gruesome dead bodies than any morgue . in close-ups the characters vomit a lot , usually all over themselves , and after the hundredth corpse , you may feel like throwing up as well . let me warn the squeamish again that if you go to this show , you will see scores and scores of dead bodies . i am not talking about removed shots from fifty feet away . the cinematography by thierry arbogast is full of steel blues and grays . if you are a fan of swashbuckling sort of tales , you may like the hectic pace and all of the little adventures the director puts his stars through . today , you would have been proud of me . " she would not be so proud of his acting which is non-existent . olivier martinez is a man handsome enough to be a model , but i saw no evidence of any acting talent . he has a striking pretty brown tabby cat who does know how to act . i liked the cat better than any of the actors or actresses in the film . juliette binoche can be a wonderful actress , see for example , damage , three colors : blue , and the unbearable lightness of being among others . here , she gets poor guidance from the director i guess because she shows little emotion and spends most of her time in vacuous smiles . for that matter , neither are the action sequences . overall , the script ( jean-claude carriere , nina companeez and jean-paul rappeneau based on the novel by jean giono ) is a mess . confusion is this show's middle name . to make it worse , everyone in the picture moves with such a high nervous energy that it leaves you exhausted . the horseman on the roof runs way too long at 2 : 10 . i saw all of it , but it is so repetitious that if i had left after only thirty minutes , i would not have missed anything . the picture is in french with english subtitles . the film is rated r . there is brief nudity , no sex , but lots of extremely horrific pictures of people dead or dying . this is a very intense show that is only for people with strong stomachs . if teenagers want to see it , make sure they can handle the gore . i liked the pretty parts of the picture , but otherwise it left me cold so i can not recommend it and can only give it * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
from the director of the adventures of ford fairlane , renny harlin , we have cutthroat island . it was one of last year's big budget films costing almost $100 million dollars to make . unless it becomes a big hit in the video stores , it is destined to be a megaflop . you can pay three bucks now and see it on pay-per-view . the only difference is he does not have demille's talent . what renny does know how to do is create explosion after explosion . his motto is : when the pace is in danger of slowing a bit , blow up something . this technique can work in a movie with more of a plot , as this year's executive decision , but here it only serves to let people test out their new subwoofers . to renny's credit , he probably made a significant dent in the unemployment rate since there are thousands upon thousands of extras . the election is ultimately decided by a single person , but it does provide an early example of democracy in action . the other problem is the map is in latin , which none of them can read . the show pays only lip service to the idea of a plot . this is a pure swashbuckling action picture . here davis attempts to be a female douglas fairbanks . davis has tremendous fun playing a pirate - wouldn't we all ? too bad the director did not worry more about whether the audience was having fun . about 10 minutes of this is somewhat interesting , but then it is pure repetition . the script by michael frost beckner , bruce evans , and raynold gideon has nothing of value to say . it wastes little time with character development or plot , best to get the actors to the next fight as quickly as possible . the cinematography ( peter levy ) is full of bright lights and strong colors . no expense is spared . i have a friend who looks for plotless action films for watching while working out on his nortictrac , this is perfect for that . if your tv has a knob that turns off the dialog , feel free to do so without worrying about losing out on any content . his die hard 2 is spectacular , and it has a strong narrative drive . it is rated pg-13 which is probably right given the violence level . there is a lot of violence , but it is pretty cartoonish . cutthroat island would be fine for kids say 8 or 9 and up . i was bored silly by it , but it does possess an impressive sound and look . i would advise catching one of those short cable films that talks about the making of the movie instead and skip the show itself . the excerpts suffice . i give the picture a thumbs down and rate it * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
it is reported to be a remake of no man of her own ( 1949 ) and j'ai epouse une ombre ( 1982 ) , but since i have never seen either of these i can not verify this . winterboure feels like a movie you have seen a hundred times before , and predictability is its middle name . most of the picture is about whether connie will be found out . what is your guess ? see what i mean , you could write the script yourself . actually , the biggest problem with the show is not its predictability nor its believability , both of which are substantial , but the lack of energy . the actors float through the movie as if they are all on sominex . most of the film is a failed attempt at comedy , but the lines the actors are given are so ineffectual that it is hopeless . frequently the film relies on sight gags that make little sense and are not particularly funny . after trying comedy in the first part , the story switches to a more serious tone toward the end . the characters begin to show their warm hearts , but the characters are so lifeless that this part works no better than the first . i tried to like this show , but there is so little there that it was not possible for me . i will give it this , it is pretty inoffensive . for people wanting to watch something to fall asleep by , it probably fills the bill . it is rated pg-13 for a little bad language . it would probably fine for kids say 10 and up . i do not recommend it , and i give it * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : august 2 , 1996 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
for those of you who truly believe that elvis is still alive , i have a picture that you will find plausible , chain reaction . for the rest of us , we will have to enjoy the film for the action alone . just so you can get a feel for how much you will have to suspend disbelief , try a few of these on for size . not only is the energy of colossal power , it is also free . think about this one for a minute . the stock markets would have the biggest bull market they have ever seen . at any rate , we learn all of this crazy pop science in the first few minutes , and then is on to the heart of the show . the special effects are terrific . although it is not a nuclear explosion , it looks like one . i would like to reveal the groups involved in the bombing so i could rant and rave about how ridiculous it is , but i will resist . the movie's conclusion is not only tedious - it is stupid as well . yes , that old credibility problem again . watch how the editors ( donald brochu , dov hoenig , and arthur schmidt ) cut between shots of cold , gray snow at night to pictures of the power of the energy in the lab . most scenes have the horns blaring just to remind you of how much danger our heroes are in . one key piece of special effects is absurd . the machine they use to produce the energy looks like it came from a 1930s science fiction movie . imagine a large washing machine with glass sides that shakes like crazy , and that has a few dryer hoses coming out of it that appear to be about to come unconnected and spill water everywhere . make it all constantly just about to blow like an overheated boiler on a sternwheeler . trust me ; it is actually even less believable than my description . the director for chain reaction is andrew davis . his specialty is movies with lots of violence and heavy special effects components . this movie is not near as good as any of these successful past efforts . he also made other films that i have not seen which were perhaps as bad as this one . he sets way too serious a tone for such a ridiculous show as chain reaction . a little humor would have helped immensely . although reeves delivers an acceptable performance , the same can not be said of his sidekick . relative newcomer weisz , who has a small part in stealing beauty , plays the woman in danger role with little intelligence and not much emotion . it is hard to believe that she is either super smart or super scared as she should be based on the plot . if she has any talent , it is not in evidence in this movie nor is it in stealing beauty . it is rated pg-13 for gobs of non-graphic violence . there is no sex or nudity , and i did not catch any bad language . the film would be fine for any kid over say 10 . i do no recommend the show , but if you go , you'll probably enjoy the stunts and the action . i give the film * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
in quite a contrast , the construction of this movie is symptomatic of much of the current degradation of our society . in the remake , producers brian grazer and russell simmon manage to transform a simple kids' comedy into the filthiest kids' movie i can ever remember seeing . certainly the show does have many funny parts , and eddie murphy does demonstrates tremendous acting bandwidth , nevertheless , as a picture marketed to youngsters and where the audience is filled with kids under ten , this film exemplifies all that is wrong in hollywood today . don't misread me . i am a libertarian when it comes to films . if produces want movies overflowing with bad language , that is a judgment call they get to make . however , in shows where the trailers make it look like good humored fun for kids , where the original movie was silly and innocent , where you know that a large portion of the audience will be kids under 10 and where the rating is pg-13 , one should not expect a constant stream of filthy language including crude sexual jokes about mothers . a few years ago , this movie would certainly have gotten an r , which would , of course , have decreased the box office take . to me this movie speaks volumes about the state of the country . adults should have their shows , but why do we think children should be taught the b and the n words ? the movie does have some good aspects and several big laughs , although not near enough for an adult audience . the film starts off quite promisingly . the plot by writers barry blaustein , steve oedekerk , tom shadyac , and david sheffield starts off to be a comedy with some serious messages . the messages surround how hard it is to get thin and how fat people are stigmatized and humiliated by society . the first message is trivialized , and the second is contradicted . the movie turns into a diatribe against fat people regardless of the movie's tacked on and moralistic ending . in an impressive acting demonstration by murphy we have him playing all of the roles of a large family with obese members . other scenes in the movie , thank goodness , do work better . jekyll and mr . murphy , who was so touching in coming to america , does his crude nightclub routine though most of the show . that he can play seven roles is an amazing testament to his inherent talents and to some great special make-up effects by rick baker , but why couldn't the sweet murphy come out when the picture calls for it ? why ? it is an r picture , but with an mpaa rating of pg-13 . do not take kids under 13 to see the show , and i would prefer to see teenagers be mature before going . in the end he gave the film a thumbs sideways . we try to investigate pg-13 films , but were lolled by the innocent trailers and the name of the picture to think this one would be okay . i do not recommend this lame picture to any age group , and i give it * 1/2 for a few nice laughs and excellent special effects . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
i found the trailers for the movie pretty lame so i was not looking forward to seeing the film . although most of the jokes fall flat , first kid is not without its charms . in fact , as the movie developed i begin to like parts of it , most especially the acting by sinbad as the first kid's secret service agent known formally as agent sam simms and informally as agent double o simms . the quality of the script is quite low , but sinbad played the character with great panache as if he had just been given the best role of the year . it is so refreshing to see actors try so hard . moreau for example , actors just brood and seem angry that the director expects them to do more than just show up on the set . in an absolutely predictable show , simms warns luke when he is surfing the net that , " just be careful out there in cyberspace . don't tell them anything . " this of course , serves to scare overly cautious parents that the net is the enemy . personally , i'd worry more in the parking lot when i leave the theater . i have some problems with the appropriateness of parts of script . one of the early jokes , albeit one aimed at the adults , has simms telling the bartender , " i'll have a harvey wall-banger . " actually , the joke is nothing more than a plot device so the writer can telegraph the ending . brock pierce starts off giving nothing to the role of first kid , and even by the end , he warms up maybe to mediocrity . sure . again , back to my concern about some of the messages of the show . nevertheless , there are some funny scenes at the gym and elsewhere . an impressive screen presence for such a minor part . finally , i feel a warning is necessary about the ending . given how innocuous most of the film is , i was kind of shocked by the ending . we have a child kidnapping scene complete with real guns , a very scared child , slightly bloody violence , a realistic shoot-out , and a man apparently and realistically shot dead . if your kids worry about being abducted , this could push them over the edge . now , jeffrey was not scared , but i bet many kids , especially younger ones , are and some could be very frightened . first kid runs too long at 1 : 41 . editing out of the slow parts by editor harry keramidas would have helped a lot . the film is rated pg . the language is pretty mild , and there is no sex or nudity , but note the previous warnings about the violence . jeffrey gives it three thumbs up . although i laughed some , there is not enough there for me to be able to recommend it . no matter how much energy sinbad threw into his role , director david m . evans could not get much out of the other actors so i can only give it * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
as i was flipping through my notes , the first that came up for a very brady sequel said , " based on a true story . " well , this is based on an old tv series , but it is as far from a true story as can be . the notes were from another movie i had seen recently . here the people are pure plastic and the show is either hilarious camp or tedious failed attempts at comedy . there was one person in my audience that got it , but the rest of us stared at the screen waiting for the next little good line to come along . the saving grace of the picture is that the dialog by the writing committee of jim berg , harry elfont , deborah kaplan , and stan zimmerman does have some nice one liners every now and then . i never saw the brady bunch movie , which my fellow critics tell me was better - i would hope so , or even the television series so perhaps i am not qualified to review this film , but i will anyway . my theory is that if you pay your seven dollars at the box office and drop another seven at the concession stand , you should be to enjoy a film without having to have already seen anything else . actually , i am not sure having seen the original or the television series would have made this lame attempt at film making any more palatable . there are some problems like her ex-husband doesn't sound or look like he used to . sure . well , it actually sounds funny when he says it . soon the cast is off to hawaii which provides lots of nice visuals . there actually is not much of a plot . the show and the scenery are only pretexts for showing off all of the brady's 1970 style outlandish bad taste in clothes and to make fun of their syrupy sweet life style . parts of the little subplots work and others don't . most of these put-downs are off-the-wall enough to be funny . perhaps in another film this would have not been so objectionable , but in this lighthearted little piece of family drama , it just does not belong . some of the dialog is worth a chuckle or two . definitely a different dogma . in a funny take off on the bad language of most movies today , the impostor tells carol's real husband , " i'm going to kick your brady butt . " in my favorite small part of the film barbara eden shows up in the epilogue as jeannie from the tv show " i dream of jeannie . " this epilogue has no real purpose of course . remember the whole script was written by a committee . a very brady sequel runs 1 : 30 . it is rated pg-13 for sex related humor . this show is fine for teenagers . if your kids are subteens , you might want to be careful . the mean time between jokes that work is too long for me to be able to recommend the film , but i did laugh a little . i give it * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
you especially want to praise popular movies , and most of all you want to save your highest rating for cult pictures with strong and vociferous followings . nothing like grade inflation and ignoring your instincts for making your own life more bearable . i consistently ignore this rule . i am generally in the mainstream of reviewers , but when i can not stomach a show as i couldn't in trainspotting i say so knowing full well i will get complaints . less than full honesty isn't fair to my readers . its coming to america has been perhaps the cinematic art house event of the year . for my money , shallow grave , flaws and all , is a much better film than trainspotting . mainly trainspotting focuses on the camaraderie of the druggies and of their humor . the ongoing joke has them trying just hard enough to get a job so they don't get kicked off the dole , but being sure that they are so repulsive that no one will actually hire them . the dialog by john hodge and based on irvine walsh's novel has many funny lines . if the images were not so horrible , perhaps i could have enjoyed them . choose your future . but why would anyone want to do a thing like that ? " most of the humor is visual with a subtext of isn't addition fun and funny at the same time . this makes for a hard to watch film , which isn't necessarily bad . i enjoyed harold and maude about suicide and a lot of other films with shocking subjects , but in trainspotting the filmmakers are so far over the line , that i could not like the picture no matter how hard i tried . i kept thinking to myself , what is next ? are we going to have a comedy full of realist images about how much fun it was to gas people in world war ii ? let me give you two typical scenes and then i will be done with this review . the lingering camera makes sure you see in detail the feces dripping down each of their faces . never in your worst nightmare have you seen such a filthy place . trainspotting runs 1 : 33 . it is rated r , but why it is not nc-17 is beyond me . in addition to the frequent heroin usage scenes , there is violence , constant foul language , sex , and full male and female frontal nudity . since the mpaa gave this film an r , they might as well just retire the nc-17 rating . i strongly recommend that teenagers not see this film at all . for adults , i will grant you that the show is imaginative and the dialog sharp , but i can not recommend this painful show to anyone . for a show i truly hated , i still will give it * 1/2 for the high energy and the clever albeit unbearable script . as it is , i feel like i am being ridiculously generous to the film . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
unforgettable isn't . although i was tempted to leave those two lines as the whole review , i will tell you more . last year , usually excellent director john dahl ( the last seduction and red rock west ) made a film about memory transferal . i did not see the film when it came out , unless i saw it and forgot it , but it is now available on pay per view where i think i saw it for the first time . unforgettable is a confused film that can't figure out what it wants to be . sometimes the script by bill geddie thinks it wants to be a thriller , but other times it tries to be sci-fi flick . at its worst , it descends into a picture with horror show overtones . if the blood doesn't get to you , then the editing makes the film into such a whirl that you feel like you are on a roller coaster where various murders flash by your eyes in a dizzying collage . the film opens with a gory crime scene . all of the cops still think he did it . yes , this is a movie that taxes your ability to suspend disbelief . he retorts , " i'm telling you your formula works , and you're talking to me about rats ? " if you manage to stay awake , you can solve the mystery in the first fifteen minutes of the show . the acting is pretty shallow all-around . ray liotta does a by-the-numbers rendition of the devil's got my body routine . saddest of all is explosive actress linda fiorentino who has a meaningless part that doesn't give her a single decent line . what a waste . if you want to see her acting ability , rent the last seduction where she should have at least been nominated for an academy award . since the last seduction was shown first , albeit briefly , on a cable channel , it was ruled ineligible for nomination . actually unforgettable plays like a tv movie . although it is kind of fun watching the mystery play out , my favorite part was the chemistry between the two doctors . it was not much , but in a lightweight show like this , you enjoy what you can . the standard thriller music by christopher young has the obligatory long violin notes to help put you in the mood . sad to say , there isn't much more than mood . unforgettable runs too long at 1 : 57 for such a transparent mystery . it is rated r for language and violence . teenagers not prone to nightmares should be able to handle it , but i don't see why they'd bother . i give it a thumbs down and award it * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
everyone shows up at one time or another , but the regulars are the alcoholics , albeit never regarded as such in the show even if one of them does drop dead . not autobiographical exactly , but realistic . he says in the press kit that he was inspired by the films of john cassavetes whose " films weren't heavy on plot ; any story that was told was done through characters and relationships . " actually , trees lounge is not about alcoholism or drug abuse , of which there is a lot of smoking and snorting , but about the camaraderie of the lounge's entourage much like that of the brooklyn smoke shop in wonderful film smoke . since buscemi has been in forty films , he seems to have a lot of famous acting friends - most of whom show up with some part in the film . although this is an ensemble cast , the show works or not depending on how well you like buscemi's acting . for me his best , and only completely satisfying picture , was fargo where he played a vicious but incompetent killer and lowlife . in trees lounge he certainly looks the part , down to bad teeth , thinning hair , and clothes right off the rack from goodwill . there is no narrative drive in trees lounge , but rather a stream of little incidents . good humor , of course , being an antonym for tommy's mood . some of the best scenes in the show are pure ad lib . some small touches are worth noting . i liked the way they drank a lowbrow brew like pabst blue ribbon . i also thought the clothes by mari-an ceo were suitably tacky without being ridiculous . can't you take some of the wrinkles out ? you've given birth to mr . magoo . " all of this having been said , there is little compelling in the picture . the characters although quirky are unsympathetically drawn . yes , i spent almost a couple of hours with these people , but why did i pay them a visit ? there is no sex or nudity . i do not think this film is inappropriate for kids other than perhaps older and mature teenagers . i know of no reason to see the movie so i give it a thumbs down and award it * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
surely a comedic genius like that can see when a script is fully developed and when it isn't . although he has made some incredibly funny films , groundhog day and ghostbusters being two prime examples , many others of his fall flat . my least favorite of his is scrooged , but i think there are even worse ones that i chose not to see . although his latest , larger than life , isn't a bad movie , it is certainly an underdeveloped one . lost opportunities abound in it . his dead father dies again , but you'll have to see the show to understand this bit of logic . yes , you guessed it , the large inheritance is an elephant . it seems vera is like the proverbial bull in a china shop . " i'm probably going to have to entertain some more offers . " how much is your salad bar ? " i wish the dialog by roy blount jr . ( based on a story by pen densham and garry williams ) was always this sharp , but it isn't . the script is the weakest part of the film which is a shame since the possibilities are endless . you've got one of the greatest comedians in the world and a huge elephant , but the mean time between laughs is interminably long . director howard franklin's pacing and the plodding editing by sidney levin only serve to compound the problems of the screenwriter's lack of ideas . along the way on this road picture , they come up on a panoply of quirky characters . elliot davis's camerawork fixates on these colorful scars on her skin with lots of close-ups . that's just another word for jungle . " never has mcconaughey overacted so much . i could hardly watch his grotesque performance . the saving grace was that he mumbled most of his lines so you did not have to listen to what he was saying . his whole character should have been eliminated . i don't think i was there that day . after a movie with a paucity of ideas , they attempt a bittersweet ending which almost works . ultimately the tragedy of the show for me is all of the talent that is wasted . why didn't they wait for a better script ? what was the hurry ? larger than life runs thankfully just 1 : 33 . it is rated pg for a little bad language , none of it necessary in a picture to be seen by mainly by grade school kids . there is no sex or nudity . he gives it a thumb almost up . personally , i do not recommend it and give it * 1/2 for a few good laughs and funny visuals . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
although davis is talented , harlin has exactly one decent film to his name , die hard 2 , and a string of ridiculous ones , including such turkeys as nightmare on elm street 4 and the adventures of ford fairlane . if you like big budget , rock 'em , sock 'em action films and don't mind repetition , then perhaps the long kiss goodnight will appeal to you . if you saw chain reaction this year and liked it , you will get to relive all of the explosions and fights . davis gets to put on a pair of convenient ice skates to outrun a speeding car , but other than that , you've seen all of the stunts before . harlin does manage to spend all of his backers' money in one explosion after another proving that his profligate excesses are rarely rivaled . oh well , the dream of every producer is that escapism like this will sell lots of tickets and popcorn . whew . spradlin has little acting range , but his demeanor is so slimy that he is quite effective . unless you need an action fix , there are only two reasons to see the long kiss goodnight . first , there is good chemistry between davis and jackson , who both have a lot of fun making the picture . second , the dialog by shane black has several funny lines . most of the humorous lines are unprintable forms of double-entendre . the long kiss goodnight runs a full 2 : 00 . by half way through , i got tired of seeing yet another blast and wished editor william goldenberg had exercised more control . the film is rated r for excessive violence too often reminiscent of a horror flick and constant bad language used mainly to shock . the film has no sex or nudity . teenagers used to a diet of heavy movie violence will probably like the film , but i don't see why anyone would bother . the long kiss goodnight gets a thumbs down from me and a * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
it was scheduled to be released theatrically in the us two months ago , but has already made its way to network television , showing this past saturday . our family was all ready to see it in paris this summer until we found out that they had dubbed into french rather than using subtitles . having vacationed near loch ness and having looked for nessie ourselves , we were intrigued to see how the movie would approach the canonical mysterious monster of our time . as a travelogue that will make the scottish board of tourism proud , the movie is a success . the cinematography by clive tickner is full of sweeping grandeur . i attribute that less to tickner's skills than to the countryside's inherent beauty . it would be hard to make the scottish highlands in and around loch ness look any other way . as he says , " i'm a joke . i want you to use state of the art equipment to prove that it's not there . " graham and to a lessor extent richardson are the only actors in the film that stay awake . considering the skills dr . dempsey displays , i agree . the intense violin music by trevor jones is a romantic complement to the lovely scenery . first time theatrical director john henderson's film works only as an atmospheric pageant of travel shots . ask your neighbor to show you the slides from his last trip to scotland and skip this meaningless film . it is rated pg , and the version shown on television has no sex , nudity , violence , or bad language . the show would be fine for kids of any age although i do not see why anyone would bother . on the other hand , my son jeffrey , age 7 1/2 , gives the film five thumbs up . i give the film a thumbs down and rate it * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
i thought of this group as i suffered through sylvester stallone latest action thriller , daylight . i lost count of how many times i laughed out loud at the wrong places . characters were dying , and i could not keep from laughing ; the circumstances were so ridiculous . one could make a cogent argument that action films should be evaluated mainly on the special effects and the stunts . by that metric , daylight delivers . not a great special effects movie , but a perfectly acceptable one . in the best part , a firestorm barbecues everything in its path . not quite as impressive as in chain reaction , but still pretty awesome . personally , i found the action sequences in daylight more tedious than exhilarating , but maybe i am too demanding . in a cliche infested story , we have a convoy of truckers taking toxic waste through the holland tunnel on way to new jersey to dump it . now , there is a concept -- faxes as car burglar alarm replacements . so wild-eyed is the driver that , as he hits every car in the tunnel , i began to wonder if the film was intended as a parody of bad action movies . the person who says it can't be done is always interrupted by the person who just did it . " they should have a place for you to check your brain in the lobby of the theater . i lost count of all the nonsensical parts . consider just two typical examples . the fans are computer controlled and can be stopped only once and for just three minutes . sure . how many times do they get cold ? once . the seriousness which director rob cohen ( dragonheart ) attaches to this farce could be summed up by one of the convicts . he asks , " listen , if we don't die in here , i wondered if i could give you a call ? " it is rated pg-13 for numerous scenes of death and destruction . if your kids can not handle heavy violence , do not take them to this show . my guess is that this means the film is not for anyone under at least ten . i enjoyed laughing at the ludicrousness of the picture , but i would not suggest that anyone else have to sit through this preposterous story . i give the movie * 1/2 only for the action sequences . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
director john d . hancock's 1989 movie was simply called prancer . the by-the-numbers story by greg taylor is so predictable that you could easily write it yourself . ( in a sight gag that seems like it will never end , the reindeer keeps walking in front of the window , but the dad keeps not noticing . ) the most surprising aspect to me was that the only noteworthy acting is by rebecca harrell , but this is the only movie she has ever made . cloris leachman gives one of her worst performances as mrs . mcfarland . the production is a beautiful one full of magic snow scenes lit by moonlight . misha suslov's cinematography and maurice jarre's piano music are magical . would that the rest of the show were so good . the story wanders aimlessly , and the pacing is way too slow . perhaps with better dialog and stronger acting the director's relaxed timing might have worked , but not in this weak script . the predictable ending could have been improved if it had been less explicit . then again , a subtle show , this ersatz tearjerker is not . it is rated g . there is no sex , nudity , violence , or profanity . " it wasn't that good of a movie , " says my son jeffrey , age 7 1/2 . " it could use more action . " i agree that it certainly needs something , but i would start by demanding a better script and a new director . although an acceptable family film , i cannot recommend prancer , and i give it * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
her new film michael features john travolta as an angel like you've never seen before . quirkiness is not funny in itself , providing only one of the ingredients from which comedies can be created . ephron gives holiday audiences a film that is dead on arrival . although not as miserable as her last film , mixed nuts , this picture is a mess . most of the laughter you will hear in the theater comes from travolta who thoroughly enjoys being an archangel . he and the dog sparky give the only compelling performances in the film . i'm not that sort of angel . " in his room , frank reflects to dorothy , " it is definitely the weirdest thing i've ever seen . " all you need is love . " ( go ahead , before you get to the end of the review , guess what its mpaa rating is . ) it is very endearing the way he has this childlike quality to him . " i agree , but he needed a better script that this one by the screenwriting committee of nora ephron , delia ephron , peter dexter , and jim quinlan . the visuals are shockingly cute , but the story has little energy . hurt , macdowell , and pastorelli are given poorly written characters and do little with them . the pacing of the show is way off . be prepared to nod off at the many slow places . regretfully , i stayed awake . the ending of the movie is a trick . just as in horror movies , when you think it is finally over , it isn't . after the natural conclusion point , there is another ten minutes of uninteresting " resolution . " i did not care about any of the characters , so i certainly was not wild about sitting through ten more minutes while they worked out their troubles . michael runs 1 : 40 , but feels much longer . much of this could prove confusing and frightening to some kids . my son , jeffrey , 7 1/2 , says it is an okay movie , but he wouldn't recommend it to his friends . he liked the " battle " parts , but didn't like all the kissing scenes . i would say six and up , but i am not sure if anyone will like the show very much . i don't recommend it , and i give it only * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
americans are not fond of foreign films , at least not those with subtitles . americans find reading too taxing , being unable to read and munch on popcorn at the same time i suppose . with revenues that low , you can see why few distributors want to handle foreign films and even art houses shun most of them . people in the movie business are there to make a profit , not a statement . the excitement of foreign films comes in their ability to experiment and to approach subjects in a way unlike that of hollywood's . sometimes , as in the recent the postman , nelly and monsieur arnaud , french twist , the promise and the starmaker , they are quite successful , and other times , such as cemetery man , they are so bad as to be almost completely unwatchable . the interest is provided by the casting of the great marcello mastroianni as a character in each of the stories . the good news is that the script by pascal bonitzer and raul ruiz takes risks , but the bad news is that it rarely works . i have never seen any of the other films by director ruiz , and based on this one , i am not motivated to try any more . i can usually control my hilarity . " it ends strangely in a gory scene that could have been lifted out of the awful horror show cemetery man . the tale is slow , and its only charm is the acting by mastroianni . the story is so dispassionately and almost clinically told that there is little to draw in the viewers . there are several experimental , surreal sequences that seem of little purpose other than to demonstrate the director's ability to pull them off . don't ask . the show explains this by telling us that as a beggar , and as a successful one i should point out , he is happier than ever . from there the story manages to get even more unbelievable . if this reivew has not already made you stop and go immediately to see this strange film , let me tell you just a bit more . the announcer explains , " extreme happiness is a form of misery , " in the introduction to the third story . for completeness sake , let me say that the last story has mastroianni playing rich businessman luc allamand . more than that , i can think of nothing to recommend the film . at least it is never boring . it is in french with english subtitles . the film is not rated , but the gore in the first part and the mature themes might get it an r . if so , it is a soft r . the show would be fine for teenagers . there is little in the show worth seeing , so i give it a thumbs down and * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
just like shows for grownups , successful kids' movies are susceptible to the excessive sequel syndrome . the land before time was a beautiful movie that could easily charm the whole family . the next two sequels were sweet but , lacking the imagination of the first , were pure formula . the latest in the series , land before time iv : the journey through the mists , is the least interesting and involving of the lot . it provides non-offensive pabulum , but little more . like the other sequels , it went straight to video , bypassing the theaters entirely . new creatures there make it no longer habitable for them . and yes , you guessed it . the canonical story is again relatively unchanged . neither of these are the least bit scary . this highly repetitious film has the same earthquake , called earth shakes , our protagonists have come across before . the main tune by james horner , heard briefly during the film , is still lovely as are the two times that ducky gets to say her signature line , " yep , yep , yep . " other than that and one pretty image of the valley of the mists from the mountaintop , there is nothing to compel you to watch this film . kids who are into the series will probably enjoy the picture , but it is a shame that the producers did not take the time to breathe a little imagination into the project and were content instead with this low budget rehash . our children deserve better . the show should be fine for kids of any age . i found the movie lackluster and recommend you choose some other video instead . the original would be a good choice . i give this lifeless version * 1/2 . " i liked it a lot . it was a really good movie because it had a lot of action like all of the other land before times . it had more new characters that the other land before times . i recommend it for kids 4 and up . " * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . review written on : january 13 , 1997 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
there are so few good novelists that it is a travesty that a director like jane campion ( the piano ) would take one of henry james's novels like the portrait of a lady and siphon away most of its beauty . she turns the conversations in the movie into little more than serial monologues . one character will deliver an emotionless short speech followed by a pause and then the other will pontificate for a bit and then another pause . the speech hangs in the air like breath on a cold winter morning . it is little wonder then that the people in the restroom afterwards were making comments like , " well , that was sure a waste of time . " the audience sat and listened as dispassionately as the players on the screen , and the silence was broken with periodic laughter in the wrong places . in fact , my reaction at the end was the same as others in the audience . we started laughing out loud at how ridiculous the show had been . not the reaction james would have wanted . the film starts bizarrely with modern day young women talking about kissing . actually , the word action is a carefully chosen misnomer since the show has been sanitized by the director to be devoid of anything approaching action . filmed versions of his work can be much better , and i like several with my favorite being bbc's production of " the golden bowl . " " i've never seen an ugly man look so handsome , " says bohemian looking mary-louise parker as henrietta stackpole . shelley winters plays mrs . touchett , but she is so badly miscast you will wish she didn't . campion inserts strange montages and surreal sequences . it has a plate full of talking coffee beans , but like much of the film it makes such little sense that they may have been lima beans for all i know . kidman's acting is good but distant . the actors are all top notch , but campion insists they approach their roles with aloofness and disdain . although i put much of the blame on campion , i must admit i have come to think less and less of john malkovich's great talent . here he gives a vapid performance as the vile gilbert osmond . malkovich has a proclivity for signing on to bad projects . two of his most recent films , the convent and mary reilly , were on my worst of the year list for 1996 . hershey ties malkovich for the most wooden performance . some critics are proposing her work as worthy of a best supporting actress award which i find ludicrous . although many critics whom i respect like this film , i thought the movie , as developed by campion , comes off as little more than intellectual puffery . none of her characters are worthy of attention . much of the dialog works on paper , but not as delivered . i liked malkovich's : " i know plenty of dingy people . i don't want to know any more . " my favorite of kidman's was : " i'm rather ashamed of my plans . i make new ones every day . " let me attempt to end on a positive note . since there is precious little of merit other than kidman's performance , i was able to soak in stuart dryburgh's handsome cinematography . his unusual choice of a pale powder blue to light kidman's face was one of the few experiments that worked in the film . perhaps , if you've recently read the novel you will be able to pick up and appreciate some of the nuances that other viewers missed and be able to enjoy the film more than they did , and then , again , maybe not . it is rated pg-13 for brief nudity , but no sex , violence , or profanity . the show would be fine for kids who are interested in shows this serious which i suspect is about 10 or older . i recommend you avoid this uninvolving film which mocks a great author . i generously award the picture a * 1/2 for the technical aspects plus kidman's performance . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
is there a market for bland and predictable children's films ? given the dearth of kids' movies , the answer has to be yes . with millions of kids hungry for movies , this means it is hard for kids' films to flop unless the producers are profligate spenders . into this tradition of non-offensive fare for our youngsters , walt disney productions in 1995 gave them a present called a kid in king arthur's court . although it sounds like something from the great mark twain and they even give him a mention in the credits , the film is merely movie mush . it will fill the kids up , but little more . do not get me wrong , there are the occasional good moments in the picture , but most of it is sleep inducing . things are not going well in camelot . joss ackland plays his part the same way in every movie only the character's name changes . there isn't even a round table . in everyone of these films as well as in heavenly creatures she performed brilliantly . although she does the best she can in this kids' movie , her part is hopelessly dull . the movie comes alive periodically from some of the lines in script by michael part and robert l . levy . most of the script however is leaden . take for example the king's musing , " camelot rots , and i play at being king . i want her great again . " " i don't want to insult you or anything , but are you nuts ? this isn't the castle . although it sounds awful , it comes across as sweet humored sibling rivalry . the best parts of the movie are a few of the surprises at the end . hardly . the show proves to be an hour and a half video aquarium for the kids and little more . it is rated pg , but consider it a g . the film is unlikely to offend or scare anyone of any age . this show is not worth your time . i give it * 1/2 , but just barely . my son , jeffrey , age 7 1/2 , said : " i liked it a lot . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
the film looks at the changes in vietnam since 1945 . it is a gentle film that uses the viewpoint of a buddhist nun to tell the story . the film opens in hue in 1985 , but it jumps back to 1945 and then works its way forward . director ho quang minh ( white page and karma ) sets a tone so subtle and lifeless that it borders on catatonia . a few times soldiers will come through and fire a few rounds , and sometimes there are gunshots in the background ; but most scenes are dark and inanimate . typical ones have two characters in shadows talking lowly . rarely is the script by nguy ngu and ho quang minh involving . the film's pace is excruciatingly slow . there is one beautiful sequence in the picture of a buddhist meal . it is choreographed so that every movement is synchronized and in perfect harmony . the flaw of the scene is that the editor lets it go on way too long so that charm eventually gives way to tedium . perhaps the single biggest problem with the film is the actors , who do little more than read their lines . none of them show any emotion , and their characters become stick figures . there is a tinge of emotion in the end , but little in the rest of the picture . gone , gone , forever gone starts with a good premise , but the director is unable to craft a compelling motion picture from it . it is in vietnamese with english subtitles . it is not rated , but would probably be pg for the little bit of shooting . kids would probably have to be nine or ten to be interested , but the show is acceptable for kids of any age . i found the film too boring to be able to recommend it . i give it * 1/2 . if you want to see a stronger entry for this year's best foreign film , check out my review of kolya which won the golden globe . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . review written on : january 25 , 1997 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
sometimes being a critic is hard . i saw blossom time at san jose's cinequest film festival . as much as i wanted and expected to like the picture , i didn't . when it is some expensive hollywood production , i have no problem in writing a derogatory review . with a nice director like david orr , it is hard . orr's film , however , was anything but easy to watch . i came away convinced that he is a better actor than a director , and that , if he does direct another movie , he should hire someone else to do the casting . farnese and gavin play southern mumblers which make them mysterious , i suppose , but also make them almost incomprehensible . i speak fluent southern . if i have trouble , then i am sure others will be even more confused . " the lord teaches us to be happy with what we got , but sometimes it doesn't seem like enough , " says francis in the film's opening sequence . a typical subplot , which doesn't work , involves two men who deliver milk door-to-door . the scene ends up being neither particularly funny nor credible . the dialog is full of southern cliches . typical is when francis explains , " there ain't nothin' wrong with me . " the show is populated by many people that fit the typical movie stereotype of southerners with dramatically lower iqs than the rest of the nation . there are some surprises along the way , but the script by anthony gavin is quite weak . i wish i had more positive things to say about the picture , but i do not . well , at least there are two good actors in the show , holloman and orr . it is not rated . i cannot recommend the film . i give it * 1/2 for the two decent performances in it . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . review written on : february 2 , 1997 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
i saw the closet thing to heaven at san jose's cinequest film festival . the picture has a cute set up , but little else to recommend the film . the writer borrows heavily from the short cuts style of plot . only his bow tie has any color . there are many other similar , failed attempts at humor . i rarely laughed . the acting is amateurish . only the man in the white hat shows any promise as a actor . the closest thing to heaven runs 1 : 38 . it is not rated but would get an r for the drug usage and the profanity . the show takes risks in order to be funny , but the jokes do not work . i cannot recommend the picture , and i give it just * 1/2 . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . review written on : february 1 , 1997 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
gridlock'd is a seemingly low budget film that covers the same ground as trainspotting , but not as imaginatively . both films are comedies about heroin addicts . almost all critics , but not this one , loved trainspotting . the picture is the directorial and screenwriting debut of the actor vondie curtis-hall ( captain prince in the recent romeo and juliet ) , who also plays the part of the major bad guy , d-reper . the show never made me believe for a minute that these guys had any intention of giving up something that sent them into such ecstasy . spoon , for example , talks in glowing terms about " his first time " -- to shoot up that is . of course , that stretch would scream and cuss them out probably did not motivate the clerks whose help they needed . although highly derivative , many of the scenes are funny . too much of the film is one long chase scene . at least we do get the great director and sometime actor john sayles in a cameo role as " cop # 1 . " i liked the film better than i thought i would , but still it is not much of movie . it is rated r for frequent hard drug usage of various forms , for violence , for lots of profanity and for nudity . i do not think the picture is appropriate for teenagers . personally , i would have rated the film nc-17 . i laughed some , but can not recommend the movie . i give it * 1/2 . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
fools rush in is a romantic comedy about the clash of the mexican and anglo cultures . the basic ingredients are present , but it takes more than good looks to make a love story and more than tacky sets to create a comedy . although after seeing it you may think the title fools rush in refers to the audience's entrance , it actually refers to two people getting married quickly without thinking through the consequences . " that's good " , she says , " because i choose to keep the baby . " the meeting setup is a cornucopia of cliches . the house is decorated with the tackiest collection of mexican artifacts i have ever seen in a film . if it were either genuine or if they have tried for parody , it might have worked , but as delivered , the jokes fell like stones . " i had no idea that families talked at dinner . " the script by katherine reback relies on ideas that are retreads . my reaction to this scene and , indeed to most of the film was to stare in disbelief . the picture does have two unique features . it is the first film that i can remember in which the characters in vegas are smart enough to leave that most plastic of cities and take a day trip to one of the great natural wonders of the world , the grand canyon . consistent with the quality of the rest of the picture , however , it is also the first film that manages to make the grand canyon look unimpressive and dull . they accomplish this feat by overexposing the image and by rushing the shooting and not waiting for the proper natural light . the filming of the grand canyon sequence yields another possible interpretation of the film's title . fools rush in runs about an hour and a half . it is rated pg-13 for some profanity and for sexual situations . the show would be fine for kids 10 and up . i found little fresh or funny material in the show , so thumbs down from me . i give it * 1/2 . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
this claustrophobic scene , which makes up the second act of the movie hard eight , feels as if it will never end , but at least something is happening , albeit painfully slowly . the first act of the movie is much worse . the acting is superb , the problem throughout the picture is the script and the directing by first-time writer and director paul thomas anderson . mammet's characters speak in staccato cadence with lines full of power . anderson's characters have little to say , and he makes sure they enunciate the words slowly so that we can ponder their non-meanings . anderson's languid film noir may start a new genre of dark and inane pictures . the film alternates between leaden prose and pregnant pauses . " i will give you all that i have . " i found myself wondering what grade the script would get in a film school . would the teacher be charitable and just suggest a rewrite or would it be deemed hopeless ? most of the scenes happen in nevada's inexpensive casinos and hotels . hard eight is a comedy without humor , a tragedy without emotion , and a story without meaning . notwithstanding these flaws , the acting is uniformly good with my favorite being the stoic performance by philip baker hall . hard eight becomes an endurance test for the audience . in hard eight something eventually does , but was it worth the pain ? i think not . i talked to another critic after the screening , and he said he thought about walking out on the film . i must admit , i was similarly tempted . it is rated r for violence and non-stop profanity . the show would be acceptable for most teenagers . i do not recommend the picture , and i give it * 1/2 only for the acting . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
why are disaster movies so frequently disasters ? probably because they are disasters first and movies second . that director roger donaldson's dante's peak would be unsuccessful is obvious from the first scene . rule number one of horror movies is that the length of time until the monster appears is directly proportional to the quality of the film . ( natural disaster movies are little more than glorified horror flicks . ) in the opening , pierce brosnan makes his debut as shrill vulcanologist harry dalton . in harry's first words he screams something incomprehensible that sounds like " get out of here . " the bad news is that you will be able to hear the rest of the dialog in the film . ( " i've always been better at volcanoes than figuring out people and politics , " harry tells us . " i move around a lot , wherever there's a volcano with an attitude , " he explains in another scene . ) if you liked twister , you'll probably find dante's peak equally satisfying . like twister , the only reason for the film to exist are the special effects . although the special effects by thomas kittle are spectacular , the sound effects by david macmillan are even more impressive . some of the explosions had me almost jumping out of my seat . unlike her usual , harsh macho role , hamilton gives a tender and vulnerable performance . she is lovelier and more alluring than i have ever seen her . with better acting than brosnan's , there could have been a believable love story . the plot is pure formula . this time it became almost a contest of who could come up with the largest number of ridiculous and predicable scenes . let me give you some samples . finally , i learned one rule not in my chemistry book . if you have to keep your hand in acid , you can protect yourself completely by wrapping a coat around your hand . dante's peak runs 1 : 52 . it is rated pg-13 for gory and frightening images of disaster's carnage . several times the filmmaker is gratuitous in his use of violence . some kids under 13 will probably get a kick out of the show , but i would be quite careful since the chance of significant fright is substantial . i found the film so bad that i was laughing frequently . it could easily have been altered slightly into a very funny parody , but as is , i could not recommend it to anyone . for the tremendous special effects and the massive sound , i give it * 1/2 . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
the best parts of being a movie critic are the pleasant surprises . a few months ago i went to see a documentary , called hype ! , about the grunge movement in seattle . as i have confessed here before , i am of the beach boys generation and a fervent classical and opera music buff . all of this notwithstanding , i loved hype ! -- not for the music per se but for what it taught me about the performers and about how they approached the music business . so it was that i went with high anticipation to see a documentary on hip hop music called rhyme & reason . in a documentary the roles of the director and the editor are much more important than in a non-documentary film . ( hype ! 's director doug pray and editors doug pray and joan zapata had a deft touch in obtaining and assembling just the right interviews and live action shots . ) rhyme & reason's director peter spirer and editor , whose name i did not catch , do not slow down long enough to make a movie . most interviews are edited down to a few words , and the interviews are lined up in no particular order and spliced together . confusion reigns . this approach does engender high energy albeit with a high frustration factor . rather than enlightening , the film contents itself with skimming the surface . buried somewhere within rhyme & reason are opinions worth hearing . even the definitions are submerged , but can be found if you listen closely . " rap is something that is being done , " one hip hopper explains . my two favorite parts of the show were the dancing called " breaking " by mr . animation , and the form of fast talking which fat lip said is called " free style . " free style is rap done ad lib and frequently without music . it reminded me of the old parcel service television ads where the guy talks a blue streak . rhyme & reason touches on some controversial subjects . ( i am not making up any of these names . ) first , one of the few female hip hoppers explains that the words are all okay if you say them in the right way . ( i suggest you continue to avoid using the b and the n words . the chances of your saying them " right " are probably slim . ) i am perfectly happy to give high marks to a documentary that i disagree with and to see one about a subject that i am not normally interested in , but rhyme & reason is such a poorly made film , i can find no reason for anyone other than hip hop fans to see it . undoubtedly , they will enjoy the music and the brief interviews . rhyme & reason runs 1 : 31 . it is rated r for extremely filthy , violent , sexist , and racist language . teenagers who like rap or hip hop will probably get a kick out of the show , but personally , i would hope than most will not go . i do not recommend the picture , and i give it * 1/2 only because the promise of the film that could have been does come through in a few memorable scenes . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
rollo knows what the public wants -- violence . downsizing . this nonplusses the zoo's animal keepers . fierce creatures can loosely be called a sequel to 1988's very popular a fish called wanda . rollo is played with a dead pan style by john cleese , and rod is done with broad humor by kevin kline . palin , whom i normally like , gives a performance so gratingly bad that i was ready to kill him . the setup for the story has much promise , but the delivery is horribly flawed . the script by john cleese and iain johnstone feels like it went through a long series of rewrites , but not enough . the resulting hodgepodge of vignettes has little coherence and remarkably few laughs . directed at first by robert young and later by fred schepisi , the film lacks the requisite energy to give punch to the jokes . if the film were chopped into pieces , the segments might work on their own , but taken together they tire more than amuse . better is the effect that willa has on him -- his tongue gets confused and sexual words come out by mistake . most of the jokes are so lame that i found that i became more interested in checking my watch than waiting for the next comedy skit . let's hope they do not attempt another remake unless they have a script worth filming . it is rated pg-13 for language and numerous sexual innuendo . the film would be fine for kids ten and up . the best part of this show for me was that it ended so i give it thumbs down and a generous * 1/2 . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . review written on : march 29 , 1997 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
" i don't know if you know , but this film was supposed to be my big break , " says jennifer lopez as documentarian terri flores . and so does the film anaconda -- right after the opening credits . okay , let's set the cast for our cruise down the amazon . jennifer lopez plays our bumfuzzled documentary director , who manages to look alluring and keep on her make-up no matter how hot and humid the climate . giving the only respectable acting performance in the show , hip hopper and actor ice cube plays the documentary cameraman . as the one credible character on the boat , the audience can use his part as a standard to judge the degree of ridiculousness of the others . he gets some asinine lines , including my favorite , " is it just me or does the jungle make you really , really horny ? " yes , our titillating script makes you think that sex , just like the monster , is just around the corner . kari salin plays denise kalber , whose main role in the film is that of someone for gary to ogle . shakespearean actor jonathan hyde is cast as the documentary's narrator warren westridge . voight , sneering through the entire movie , gives a pathetic and unbelievable performance . ( as the characters die in the movie , see if you notice an interesting relationship with the order of their death and the actor's probable salary . ) finally , there are the real stars of the show -- the snakes . the special effects are the only reason to see the film . the fake snakes' movements are fascinating . director luis llosa uses typical horror film techniques to shock and gross out the audience . we get to hear people's bones snap , and we get an inside view from the snake's stomach as someone is swallowed alive . the snake even gets to regurgitate one of its human kills . perhaps because the filmmakers realized how hopeless anaconda was , they pumped up the music and the background sounds so much that you will leave the theater looking for a little peace and quiet . one thing that can be said for the film , it does have a high energy level and lots of action , even if it is all preposterous . it is rated pg-13 for gross and sometimes gory violence . i'd be careful about letting kids under 13 go unless they are used to schlock horror films . i give the movie thumbs down and * 1/2 for the special effects . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
" has your life always been riddled with cliches ? " the audacious picture , follow me home , from new filmmaker peter bratt is a movie filled with cliches about racism and sexism . even the bonding among the men in this road picture is shattered by one of the chicano's racism toward the lone african-american male . follow me home is a hard picture to review , especially after i met peter bratt , its eminently likable writer and director . when he describes his movie , he eyes light up and his expressions are full of warmth and vision . bratt , being of south american indian ancestry , understands the prejudices the film attempts to portray . and yet , knowing racism does not guarantee that your first film about it will be worthwhile . the focus of the picture is abel who , as the resident racist and misogynist , becomes so obnoxious that you want to scream at him to shut up . in contrast to the energetic acting of the male leads , woodard seems coolly disinterested . the way to view the muralists' journey , i suppose , is as a poem against racism with these characters all out on a limb raging against a system out to get them . the dialog , however , too often sounds like pseudo-intellectual poppycock . for some reason , surreal dream sequences made in powder white are used for some of the scene transitions . their purpose is never clear , and their effect is to slow down the film's pacing . the film has to be admired for its intensity and risk taking , but for me the only scenes that worked were the few when one of the characters puts down the hatred spewing out of another character's mouth . in another , abel gets his comeuppance for cussing out and utterly abusing a friendly waitress . although the film can be hard to sit through , the talent of the cast and crew is obvious . while i do not like what they created , i respect their devotion to their vision . the picture has become a labor of love for all associated with it . i wish them best of luck with their picture . follow me home runs 1 : 42 . it is not rated , but would be r for violence and one scene of crack cocaine usage . the film would be fine for older teenagers . i cannot bring myself to recommend the picture , but i give the movie * 1/2 for its unrealized potential . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
after seeing and admiring wesley snipes's work in the recent and preposterous film murder at 1600 , i viewed one of his earlier films , passenger 57 . when passenger 57 was released in 1992 , i carefully avoided it because its reviews were abysmal . today i see most films , promising or not , so i can review them . without this policy , i would have never seen private parts or liar liar , both of which i loved , so there is something to be said for the see-them-all principle . ) like murder at 1600 , passenger 57's script ( by dan gordon and david loughery ) takes an already questionable premise and contorts it beyond any hope of credibility . hopeless plots have only two successful strategies , either go for parody or cast a strong lead and hope the lead can carry the film . passenger 57 has exactly one jewel -- snipes . although snipes sometimes seems too smart for his character , his performance is always interesting , albeit not as good as in murder at 1600 . the plot , such as it is , surrounds the hijacking of a plane by terrorists . bruce payne , whose specialty seems to be playing in numerous obscure movies , plays the terrorist leader charles rane . payne relies on his ever shifting eyes to express emotion . his performance is the sort that elicits laughter at the wrong times . elizabeth hurley plays his side kick , sabrina ritchie . her acting relies on a silly collection of sneers . most of the cast plays the material dead seriously , except for ernie lively as chief biggs . lively did not get the message on the film's intent and goes for pure parody as the racist southern cop with an iq only slightly higher than his age . although somewhat out-of-place , he is just ridiculous enough to be funny . director kevin hooks , whose most recent film was fled , likes lots of guns and action to keep up the energy . passenger 57 provides brainless entertainment for couch potatoes , but little more . it is rated r for violence . the film would be fine for teenagers . although i enjoyed watching snipes , i cannot recommend the film and can only give the picture * 1/2 . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
night falls on plausibility , oops i mean night falls on manhattan is the gritty new crime drama written and directed by sidney lumet . and these are only a few of the improbabilities . holding back your laughter as one incredulous scene after an another rolls across the screen is not easy . still the film affords several guilty pleasures -- watching garcia's hair being chief among them . nuclear weapons could not move it in these scenes . even the ridiculous aspects of the film create laughable fun . this part of the plot leads nowhere and only serves to titillate the audience . neither actor shows any skin or much emotion . ian holm gives the only genuine and moving performance in what is otherwise a plastic show , despite the realistic grimness of david watkin's cinematography and philip rosenberg's sets . the ultimate failing of the picture is lumet's inability to ever set the proper rhythm for the picture . individual parts of the plot work , but they are never drawn into a convincing whole . couple this with the picture's lack of energy , save the periodic overacting , and the shows bogs down hopelessly with the weight of its implausibility . it is rated r for violence and profanity . it would be fine for most teenagers . the film has little worth recommending so it's thumbs down and * 1/2 . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . review written on : may 20 , 1997 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
" you know who i am ? " " i am your genie . " " i wish i was as big as you but not so stupid ! " the rest are laughably bad . " you smell like hippopotamus butt , " max yells at kazaam in one of the film's typically trite snippets of dialog . the others are a little better . only shaquille o'neal works at his part , the rest of the cast barely work up a sweat . the show works only as a showcase for o'neal's modest acting talents . for all its failings , there is something to be said for a movie where at least one person , o'neal , is clearly having a great time . too bad he wasn't able to transfer his enthusiasm better to the audience . and too bad the show did not have a better script and supporting cast . it is rated pg for some cartoonish violence . the show would be fine for kids five and up and perhaps younger . my son jeffrey , age 8 , likes the movie a lot . i cannot recommend the film , and i think * 1/2 is more than generous . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . review written on : may 18 , 1997 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
" tomorrow it's video games and action figures . in 1994 , disney had no fresh ideas , but they figured they could cast the same actors and make as much money in a sequel . i am not making this up . all movies need bad guys , and this time they choose iceland to find the villains . yes sirree , this is one bad dude . you do not even need to watch the screen to know when the dentist is there , the music ( steven brill ) always moves into the deep registers when he is present . make a guess how close the last game will be . all of the standard sports movie cliches are used and reused in the film . still , when all is said and done , the show does have high energy even if few ideas . this is probably enough to satisfy the mighty ducks's fans . it is rated pg for reasons that escape me . the film is fine for all ages . my son jeffrey , age 8 , thinks the movie is " terrific , " and it is his favorite of the three mighty duck movies . i find the movie unimaginative and uninteresting so i do not recommend it . i give it * 1/2 . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . review written on : june 5 , 1997 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
perhaps her parents should have studied the script by jeff rothberg ( the amazing panda adventure ) to see if it contained more than some cute magic tricks - it doesn't . probably more apropos would have been for them to view director michael ritchie's collection of films including such forgettable ones as his last three , the fantasticks , cops and robbersons and the scout . ritchie spends all of his creative energy in a simple wish in clever staging of the wishes , and allocates no time for directing the acting . if turner and short have insulted their viewing public with more pathetic acting in other movies , the names of the films do not come to mind . a simple wish has one of the most inauspicious beginnings on record . for five long and tedious minutes , short demonstrates how to overact while doing slapstick . ops , big mistake . prophetically , anabel says at one point , " this stinks . " to which murray concurs , " i know , it's bad . " and how . it is rated pg for perhaps a few bad words that i missed . the show would be acceptable for all ages . my son jeffrey , age 8 , thought the show was " excellent , " and his buddy matthew , age 8 , said that the film " goes up there among my favorites . " i found most of the film pathetic so i give it thumbs down . for the imaginative wishes and for poor mara wilson's nice performance in a terrible picture , i give it * 1/2 . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
this poster provides an apt metaphor to this meaningless pseudo-expose of the plight of immigrant workers . jeremie renier plays the central character , igor , the fifteen-year-old from the poster . expressionless until almost the end , his long repressed emotions burst through briefly and as falsely as the rest of his otherwise stoic performance . he has such little passion that he almost lacks any humanity . assita ouedraogo , who expresses most of the show's emotions , confines these to outbursts of ranting and raving . this pretentious film , dripping with pathos and big messages , is the overly serious type most critics love . with his unsteady handheld camera alain marcoen films it in a blur of pans , extreme close-ups , backs of people's heads and all the artistically gritty shots possible . marie-helene dozo's choppy editing also serves to make the viewer feel unwelcome . although the attempt is for a film with a documentary feel , the result is amateurish and uneven . written and directed by the brothers jean-pierre and luc dardenne , it was a big hit at cannes , if one believes the press kit . that does not mean the directors have produced a compelling narrative . la promesse wants to be gut-wrenching and inviting , but actually is cold and uninvolving . it is in french with english subtitles . although unrated , its little violence and profanity would probably get it a pg-13 , but this is a mature movie , appropriate only for teenagers and older . i found little in the show that felt honest so i give it thumbs down and * 1/2 . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
as proof that this conspiracy exists , consider as evidence the script by brian helgeland for the new mel gibson and julia roberts picture , conspiracy theory . the packed audience at the advanced screening of conspiracy theory became almost outraged at the picture . serious lines generated massive laughter because they were simultaneously ridiculous and stilted . at one point , a guy shouted an insult about the picture's quality and the audience broke into applause . the producers had a successful director , richard donner , two big stars , mel gibson and julia roberts , and a promising premise . donner , who directed gibson in all of the lethal weapon films , would use gibson's ability to create quirky characters to maximum advantage . the film opens promisingly and stays that way for the first ten minutes . ( in one of the film's more laughable bad snippets of dialog , one of the agents describes the organization saying , " if the intelligence community is a family , think of us as the uncle no one talks about . " ) and to make sure he is current on all the latest theories of others , he listens to what sounds like conspiracy talk radio . bloods oozes out of fletcher's mouth in a gory image that adds nothing other than shock value . in a film with more low points than death valley , two stand out as much worse than the others . the film's other " delight " is the explanation of the mystery surrounding fletcher that dr . jonas gives to alice . contrived would be the most charitable thing that can be said of this part of the plot . many pointless scenes are left in and others are allowed to go on way past their welcome . the result is a film as tedious as it is ridiculous . and this show is but one of many that prove the theory . conspiracy theory runs far too long at 2 : 15 . it is rated r for gore and profanity . the film would be fine for most teenagers . i do not recommend the movie and give it * 1/2 only for the two good leading performances in an awful movie . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
just like the formula script of free willy 3 : the rescue , she does not think ahead . john mattson , the writer of free willy 2 : the adventure home , again connects the dots to give us basically the same movie plus one . randolph , played by august schellenberg , is again the most animated of the characters . among the best and worst parts of the plot are the villains . in easily the most refreshing part of the picture , the film explores briefly the other side of an environmental issue . the problem with this approach is that it becomes hard to hate a bad guy who seems trapped in his profession and who is such a good father . without an adequate villain , the show lacks much credible tension . tv director sam pillsbury's film feels like a direct-to-video production , which is how the inevitable free willy 4 should be marketed . as a two dollar rental that only the kids watch , the movie becomes a more palatable proposition . within the confines of a theater , pillsbury's lethargic pacing and the script's paucity of ideas become all too apparent . the dialog is full of the platitudes one might find in a substandard third grade reader . " they don't feel . the only reason to see the show are the frolicking whale sequences , framed nicely by the rugged mountains of the pacific northwest coast . the most remarkable scenes are those shot underwater , featuring close-ups of the people and the whales looking eye-to-eye . still , a half hour short film of just these scenes would have been much preferable to a feature length movie padded with the recycled material from the last two movies in the series . if your kids want to see this film , try to talk up the advantages of waiting for it to come out on video . maybe by then they will have forgotten , and you can suggest some much better show at the video rental store instead . the scene where willy gets shot with a spear may be too much for kids under 6 , but for older ones the show would be fine . my son jeffrey , age 8 , thought the film was great but complained that all the free willy pictures have the same story . my sentiments exactly . i give thumbs down to this lame rehash and award it * 1/2 for at least having the courage to try to tell two sides of an environmental issue . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
what is it with demi moore ? one cannot watch her good , but older , films like ghost and a few good men without appreciating her talent . her latest , g . i . suffice it to say that it is rambo but with pretensions . her character in g . i . jane is accused once in the movie of trying to be joan of arc . indeed moore plays it like bruce willis playing joan of arc -- think die hard 5 , but with a message . the preachy script spends more energy philosophizing than worrying about the narrative . remarkably little happens in the film , but it is so preposterously presented and takes so long in unfolding that the first hour will seem like an eternity . " if a cannibal used a knife and fork , would you call that progress ? " since it's a film about our military , the leaders are shown , of course , as deceitful and in collusion . although all of the seal candidates are hurt , none are injured more so than lt . o'neil . g . i . jane is a needlessly gory film that is so over-the-top it is hard to decide what parts of it might be realistic . in a line so cliched that he must have had trouble delivering it with a straight face , he says , " remember , there are no bad crews , only bad leaders . " after drifting aimlessly from one outlandish scene to another , the tedious film's last third takes the asinine plot to new lows and makes the unbelievable first parts look almost plausible in comparison . ( g . i . jane manages to be even more ludicrous than the shadow conspiracy that i saw last week . at least that film had few pretensions of realism . ) and if that is not enough to take , there is the acting , or rather overacting . bancroft's heavy southern accent goes in and out like the tide . to be fair , the script gives her some of the worst of the movie's leaden lines . ( " don't ever think of playing politics with me , little darlin' , or you'll be up way past your bedtime . " ) people in the film don't converse , rather they engage in political monologues and sermonettes . " i'm not here to make some sort of a statement , " lt . o'neil informs the base's commanding officer upon her arrival . " if you were someone else , you wouldn't be making statements about making some sort of a statement , would you ? " usually reliable director ridley scott does not trust the audience to understand his points so he overemphasizes them and drills them into our heads through repetition . scott's uninvolving action sequences are little more than loud , and he seems obsessed with imbuing the film with a message with a capital " m . " although most of the film can be quite annoying as scott exploits an important subject , the picture does have its moments . hugh johnson's handsome cinematography gives the film an intensity and an honesty that the script lacks . cheri minns's stark make-up for demi moore shows the wear and tear on her face from too much water and too many beatings . and finally for those fans of moore's body , editor pietro scalia's favorite scene transition is another glimpse of moore buffing up doing one hand push-ups . personally , i would have preferred acting to sweating . g . i . jane runs overly long at 2 : 08 . it is rated r for violence and profanity . the film would be fine for mature teenagers . i give the picture thumbs down and * 1/2 for its unrealized potential . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . review written on : august 6 , 1997 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
although today's generation may believe that it was tim burton who popularized the batman comic book series by making a live action version of it , its first appearance on the little and big screens was over twenty years earlier . adam west as batman and burt ward as robin made a televison series called " batman , " which became a hit for its campy fun and its trademark " pow " and " ouch " screen overlays . ( twenty years earlier still was a movie theater serial , which i recently reviewed , but it was a low budget , obscure production that spawned no action figures and left little lasting memory . in 1966 , during the brief flash of the tv series's popularity , they made a full length theatrical release which they marketed as batman : the movie , although the title on the film is simply batman . the later movies abandoned the boy wonder title for robin , perhaps because it wasn't macho enough , calling attention as it does to robin's relative immaturity . all of batman's gadgets are batsomething or other . the batcopter has a big non-functional batwing and a batladder . the latter is created by appending a sign saying " batladder " upon which the camera lingers lest we miss the joke . unlike the multi-million dollar special effects of the later movies , this one uses cardboard extensively in its construction . perhaps the funniest vehicle is penguin's submarine which is powered by two gigantic penguin flippers . the gaudy sets , the silly dialog , and the ridiculous plots were the hallmarks of the " batman " series . partly because this style of humor has not aged well and partly because the movie is an overly lame adaptation of the series , the picture lacks much punch . adam west was never much of an actor , and his limitations are all too apparent in the movie . his flat enunciation of words have random pauses between them as if no sentence owned them . in fact the whole movie feels like a 30 minute episode in which director leslie h . martinson told the actors to speak slowly so that they could try to shoot enough film stock to make it into a feature length movie . adam west looks awkward in these scenes , and this whole subplot looks out of place as if it were pasted in by mistake from some other movie . as part of a group of college students who used to gather in the dorm to watch the television series , i was surprised at how the movie version was so slow paced and how it relegated the " pow " and " ouch " epigrams to a single scene at the end . although terminally silly , the series was full of energy . even though it plods along , the movie adaptation does have its fun little diversions . " it looks bad , batman , " worries robin . " this brassy bird has us buffaloed . " any show that can get an actor to say that with a straight face has accomplished something . batman : the movie runs 1 : 44 . it is rated pg for comic book fights . the show would be fine for all ages . my son jeffrey , age 8 , and his friend maxim , age 9 , both thought the film was " pretty good . " jeffrey did not like the camp and thought the show needed to be at least kind of serious . i can't recommend the film although it does have its moments . i give it * 1/2 . if you want a good , nostalgic version of batman , rent the 1949 serial instead . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . review written on : august 8 , 1997 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
ask the typical moviegoer about a film , and what you will be told about are the stars and the plot . with few exceptions , the director is never mentioned . and the writers are totally ignored . excess baggage can serve as an object lesson in the importance of an intelligent script and a director with a sense of vision . for stars the picture was to have the talented alicia silverstone and christopher walken , and the setup for the story showed great promise . the resulting film , however , leaves much to be desired . screenwriters max d . adams , dick clement and ian la frenais fashion the outline of their characters but never bother to fill them in . the dialog is as sparse as it is meaningless , making the movie seem like a partially finished body of work that was rushed into production before it was completed . director marco brambilla , whose only other film was demolition man , crafts a story without context or compass . the film appears to be a dark comedy , but dark comedies have impressive atmospherics and are , shall we say , funny . this remarkably humorless movie has a laugh count of one -- an unprintable line of silverstone's that occurs 45 minutes into the film . jean-yves escoffier's pedestrian cinematography has no discernible look to it , rendering it as uninviting as the soliloquies of the actors . someone to guide me through life . silverstone brings nothing to the role and rarely rises above her poorly written part . her character , like all of the characters in the story , is unsympathetically drawn . the movie is populated by people who are more walking enigmas than flesh-and-blood human beings . if an unexpected tornado had killed all of the characters , none of them would have been worth mourning . this sounds better than it is due to the director's inability to stage compelling scenes . rarely is what they say worth hearing , so perhaps the paucity of lines is a blessing in disguise . benicio del toro , as the thief , sleepwalks through most of the picture , waking periodically to mumble some incomprehensible lines . he will speak the lines written , but he will not show one scintilla of emotion . when christopher walken shows up as emily's uncle ray , the film briefly looks promising again , since walken is the master of the creepy . the director manages to confuse walken too . the only differences is that he looks incredibly sad . you would be too if you were stuck in this movie . when the inevitable conclusion finally comes , it is not clear what the director of this sleep-inducing picture had intended to accomplish . his slightly mean-spirited film wasn't funny , gave no message and touched no emotional nerves . i left as confused as the actors . excess baggage runs 1 : 41 . it is rated pg-13 for violence , drinking , and sexual dialog . the film would be fine for teenagers and those a bit younger . i do not recommend the picture , and i give it a generous * 1/2 . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
sunday , by new screenwriters james lasdun and jonathan nossiter and new director jonathan nossiter , is just the sort of film that gives art house movies a bad name . its plot labyrinth hints at an some undisclosed intellectual reward if you can figure out its message . but , when you finally understand the plot , most viewers will probably feel cheated since the journey is not worth the reward . the writers have surprisingly little to say , and what is said is quite dated and unrealistic . dirty snow dots the terrain like spots on an old pair of trousers . the camera flits from person to person as we catch snippets of meaningless dialog . instead of hearing intelligent writing , we get to see the inside of a filthy toilet bowl and listen as our protagonist urinates into it . although many may find it disquieting to hear suchet speak with an american accent , his accent is quite good , perhaps too good , being so nondescript that he seems to have been born to two television newscasters . his performance in the film can also be argued to be of too high a quality . with him associated with the picture , it is harder to write it off , and it makes one try to find something worthwhile in the story , which is a futile search . the twist is that some of the fantasies will happen later in the movie . this all sounds more engrossing than it is , thanks to the writers' inability to fashion a coherent narrative and create any compelling characters . eventually , in one of the least erotic sex scenes in some time , oliver and madeleine join bodies but little else . later she reflects , " i don't really know you except in a biblical sense . " finally -- drum roll -- the film comes to its putative point . given ibm's generous pension and severance pay , one has to assume a lot , proof of the disconnect between the screenwriter's world and the real world . " you can really fall a long way in this country , " is how madeleine puts it . " no work , no hope for work , like every day's sunday , " explains oliver . with his middle-class background and his talents , he should have no trouble finding employment . the message of this sad and depressing little film is that jobs in america can be quite hard to find -- even for middle-class professionals . it is not rated but would be an r for profanity , sex , nudity , and mature themes . the film would be acceptable for older teenagers . i do not recommend the picture , and i give it * 1/2 only for a fine performance by david suchet in an otherwise dismal film . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
actually , that isn't even close to the worst . the reality is much more horrific . hers is the only performance in i know what you did last summer with any depth . in a scene lifted straight out of scream -- they share the same screenwriter , kevin williamson -- the kids try to out-scare each other with diabolical stories . to their credit , their story telling has more intensity that the movie itself . it is in this sequence that the four actors come most alive . in the rest of the film their parts are relegated to caricature . the story alternates between a traditional slasher film and a whodunit . john debney's heavy music overwhelms every scene with reminders to be frightened . a few more surprises would have been welcome in this putative horror show . the very last scene of the film , although the most predictable , manages to be the scariest . although a handsome film , thanks to denis crossan's cinematography , i know what you did last summer is a goose-bumps-free horror show with little fresh material and nothing to recommend its viewing . i know what you did last summer runs 1 : 40 . it is rated r for profanity and gory violence including people being gutted with a hook . the show would be fine for teenagers used to such horror pictures . i give this one thumbs down and * 1/2 . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . review written on : october 15 , 1997 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
all of this sounds better than it is . the script parades so many minor characters past us that we need a scorecard to keep them straight . all are drawn in caricature , and none have any depth . ( one hint to the befuddled viewer . the merely bad chinese wear military uniforms , but the most nefarious are those chinese in expensive western suits . ) jon avnet's direction does not alleviate any of the confusion created by the jumble of the narrative . watching the film is rather like trying to make out what two characters are doing as they weave their way through a blizzard . the story seems intent on making strong political statements , exactly what they mean is less clear . it would appear that the film stands foursquare against brutality , but most of the subtext remains murky . if the characters were more genuine or the story more plausible , one could more easily be moved by jack's mental and physical torture . the scenes are stagy even if the settings are genuine . and the movie keeps testing how far we are willing to go in suspending disbelief . still , gere is gere , an actor who manages to rise above the material . the movie's makeup department , however , does him a disservice . sometimes , one can look too handsome . eventually , this kafkaesque tale draws to its inevitable close , with one more clue materializing and miraculously making all the difference . on the whole , watching an old perry mason rerun on television would have been more satisfying . it is rated r for some violence and profanity . the film would be fine for teenagers . 
if a self made hero ( un heros tres discret ) sounds like a hundred other films ( tony curtis's the great impostor and peter sellers's being there come immediately to mind ) , it is . the difference is in the execution . the script by jacques audiard and alain le henry , based on the novel by jean-francois deniau , confuses the viewers by swirling a host of supporting characters past them in a blur . the first half of the film is hopelessly muddled with the latter half being relatively better . exacerbating the problems of the narrative , jean-marc fabre's cinematography pans the camera in a constant twirl , and most of the first half is so dark that it is hard to see the expressions on the actors' faces . juliette welfling's erratic editing adds to the overall obfuscation . even the editing of the newsreel footage is so choppy that it becomes difficult ascertaining what is happening . all of this notwithstanding , the premise of the show has great promise . the film , which garnered many french cinematic awards last year , has taken over a year to get a u . s . distributor . although the film spends much of the time trying to be humorous , it rarely succeeds . it works better in its serious moments , but its attempts at poignancy are muted by the chaos of the storyline . but by then , your interest in this much told tale may have waned . it is in french with english subtitles . the movie is not rated but would be an r for war carnage , brief nudity , and a little profanity . the film would be fine for teenagers . 
atkinson with his almost mute acting shtick grunts a lot in the movie but speaks very little , probably no more than a hundred words in the entire picture . his style of comedy lives or dies based upon how funny you find his exaggerated physical humor . although his fans may find bean well worth their time , others may find this 1 : 30 film about 1 : 27 too long . there is probably enough humorous material in bean for a " saturday night live " skit , but as a full-length movie it does little more than provide an opportunity to get to know your watch better . the dull and relatively ugly cinematography by francis kenny does not help break the film's tedium . bean is supposed to speak at the picture's unveiling . alison is the smartest one in the film and the only one who had the good sense to walk out . let me give you a flavor of the brand of humor which the movie relishes . we have bean with a cigarette lighter up his nose one time and tissue stuck up it another . and mainly he makes several variations of the classic funny face in which one contorts every facial feature . " if you do nothing , nothing can go wrong . " so we get more grunting and grimacing . i agree -- very distant . bean runs 1 : 30 , but feels much longer . the movie is rated pg-13 for sexual humor . the movie would be acceptable for kids 10 and up . we considered taking our 8 year old , but wisely rejected that idea . 
both are quite capable actors , but the parts they are given in happy together almost dares the audience to care . their lifeless performances are right in line with wong's dreadfully dull screenplay . although the movie contains some of the most graphic homosexual scenes i've encountered , the actors present no passion or love during them with the result that the scenes are coldly antiseptic . never is the narrative interesting and rarely are the characters the least bit compelling . the picture has a single saving grace . the cinematography by christopher doyle punctuates the otherwise uninvolving scenes with fascinating images . although doyle's work in happy together is not nearly as good as his stunning work in temptress moon , he enlivens an otherwise tedious picture . using both oversaturated black-and-white sequences and lush color ones , he keeps the audience's attention even when the story doesn't . similarly , the movie happy together has a dreary sameness to each of its vignettes , only the handsome cinematography saves it from being an unwatchable , boring film . the picture is in cantonese with chinese and english subtitles . the film is not rated but would get an r for nudity , profanity , violence and graphic sex . the film is not appropriate for teenagers . 
as the grown ralphie , jean shepherd speaks through heavy narration about the christmas ralphie was 9-years-old . the story is nominally about ralphie's quest to get an air rifle for christmas and not just any air rifle -- a genuine red ryder . " every family has a kid who won't eat , " ralphie tells the audience . to get nourishment in him , his mothers tricks him with games like " show me how the piggies eat . " sticking his head in his plate , ralphie's little brother grunts away as he spreads the potatoes all over his face in a cliche of a disastrously messy kid . most of the show's episodes are heavily outlandish . every adult in the picture , even the department store santa claus pooh-poohs ralphie's gun wish with , " you'll shoot your eye out . " stay tuned . all of the story's characters are too quirky . their dialog is sometimes funny but the script's lack of subtlety and effective wit makes for an increasingly tiring experience . roald dahl could have turned this material into another of his sardonic masterpieces , but the movie's writing committee of leigh brown , bob clark and jean shepherd simply do not have anything approaching dahl's talents . in its simplicity this predictable picture , for all its faults , does possess an undeniable charm underneath . if they could have just gotten dahl to write the script . . . it is rated pg for a few mildly profane words . the film is fine for all ages . my son jeffrey , age 8 , thought the movie was " great , " and he went on to comment that he liked the boy because he was funny . 
mouse hunt , the first kids' movie from the new dreamworks studio , should come with a warning . later in the review i'll cover some of the picture's questionable aspects . the dark movie opens with a funeral . the house is correctly described as " cold and spooky , " and phedon papamichael's creepy , dark cinematography adds to the fright . asked the kid behind me , clearly upset . ) alan silvestri's whimsical music tries to set a happier mood to the picture . with a doa performance by the two leads , the mouse shows up and almost saves the picture . when the brothers slice off a piece of cheese to put it on a mouse trap , the mouse rolls the entire cheese wheel away instead . the only smart thing they do is hire caesar the exterminator -- smart because christopher walken's militarily precise performance is the only decent one by a human being in the movie . the most imaginative sequence in the film has the mouse running behind the walls , chased by a series of nails being hammered into the wall . needless to say , the kids are apt to be to scared by this scene as it looks like the mouse is about to die a horrible death . first-time movie director gore verbinski , whose background is television commercials , manages to maintain interest in the show's black comedy for about thirty minutes , but after that repetition sets in . the mouse's acrobatics always delight , but banged heads have a limited appeal . as promised , i'll cover some of the inappropriate parts of the movie . first , the tone is extremely dark . in a particularly gross scene , the exterminator eats mouse feces as an investigative technique . in the sexually questionable category are a series of fondlings that occur at the end . these scenes have no place in a pg movie with a theater filled with young kids . ( i checked and was not able to find any other reviewers who have mentioned the movie's questionable parts . how can they be so oblivious to the sensibilities of the movie's target audience ? don't any of the reviewers have kids ? ) the movie ends in one of its few upbeat moments . the ending possesses the intelligent and good spirited humor that the rest of the movie so often lacks . it is incorrectly rated pg and should be considered questionable for kids under 10 . my son jeffrey , age 8 , spent most of the movie so scared that he was shaking , but said he wanted to stay . in the end he claimed he thought the movie was " great and funny . " he went on to say that he wanted to advise parents that " if you don't like bugs or mice or bloody scenes or if your child gets scared easily , don't see it . " his friend matthew , age 9 , said the movie was " a rich and cheesy deal , but it was good . " both of them said they liked home alone 3 much better because it had more action , was funnier and wasn't so gross . 
there is a telling moment in the tango lesson . in a movie that mixes reality and fiction with a movie within a movie and with characters playing quasi-autobiographical parts , sally potter plays the lead named , you guessed it , sally . late 40-ish sally , with her pencil thin lips , her curly hair , and her attractive , svelte figure , makes an interesting contrast to pablo and the male professional dancers in the film . sally clearly enjoys every minute of it . here the ambiguity is intentional for it is never clear where the fictional sally ends and the real sally begins . so what exactly is a tango ? forget the concept of the tango as a part of the ballroom dance cannon for it shares little with the fox trot or the waltz . the result is an energetic and highly visual endeavor . would that the movie , the tango lesson , possessed more of that fire . when the dancers are on center stage the film certainly hums , but the rest of the film relies on a story that is so thin that it quickly loses its audience . tango becomes the sexual subtext of the picture . to underscore this , pablo greets sally with a deep-voiced , " it's been a long time . " with a twinkling smile , she responds , " it certainly has . " another subtheme concerns religion -- sally and pablo are both of jewish ancestry . " how did you choose the tango ? " " i didn't ; the tango chose me , " he replies as if he had had a religious calling . the movie contains little spoken dialog . the dialog is more danced than spoken . the surreal subplot of her pitching a movie to hollywood and the remainder of the non-dancing parts are disappointing . the producer doesn't like it being in french and starring a legless fashion designer . that this film would almost certainly be a poor investment at twenty mil is ignored as sally , the writer , ridicules hollywood . the tango lesson , even in the many slow parts , is a hard film not to like . " it suits me to lead , and you can't deal with that . " it is partially in french and spanish with english subtitles , but it is mainly in the languages of english and dance . it is rated pg for adult themes . the picture would be fine for kids around ten and up . 
existing more in a metaphorical world than a real one , the bulk of the storyline serves as a conceit to prepare the viewer for the film's incredible conclusion . as the story opens , petr hapka's overly dramatic music soon has trumpets blaring , drums banging and flutes wailing . as the sullen lea , lenka vlasakova gives a meticulous and delicate performance . with a better story than that by first-time writer and director ivan fila , vlasakova's work might have been moving as well . but the story rings so false at every turn that there is rarely sufficient motivation for the audience to delve into the inaccessible picture's oblique characters . as the quintessentially cold and inhumane villain strehlow , who obviously has a heart of gold hidden somewhere in his chest , christian redl gives a dramatic reading of his inexplicable character . where strehlow's anger and bitterness comes from is but one of the convoluted show's many conundrums . the tale , which is as bleak and morose as the frozen landscape surrounding the derelict farm strehlow calls home , manages to neatly tie up most of the story's mysteries before its hard-to-believe ending . although the filmmaker clearly wants to illustrate utter despair and the hope for redemption , the movie plays too much as an exercise in cinematic style to draw one into the story . the movie is not rated but would be an r for violence . 
1994's the yearling uses exaggerated hillbilly accents that probably worked in the 1946 original , but in the new version they seem like put-ons . the story contains all of the elements of an old fashioned backwoods tale . amazingly , although the deer is clearly the best part of the movie , she appears very little . the picture uses lush cinematography and natural disasters to show off the family's hardships . unfortunately the story , a relatively disconnected series of incidents none of which are particularly compelling , works only in brief spurts . not a happy lot , the people fret over something in the majority of the scenes , what with wild animals , bad weather , poverty , death , hunger , etc . you almost want to shout at them to lighten up a little , surely they have some things to be thankful for . their neighbors are cliches of simple folk . the poorly drawn and exaggerated characters drink whiskey from jugs , have iqs way south of 100 , and look like they haven't bathed in a month of sundays -- make that twelve months . i haven't seen the original since childhood so i cannot be sure that it is better , but i expect it must be . the movie only comes into its own in its manipulative but effective tearjerker ending . it is rated pg , but should have been pg-13 , for violence , blood and death and would be appropriate for kids about nine and up . my son jeffrey , almost 9 , thought the film was only " pretty good . " he complained that it had too much crying and too much blood and frequently did not make sense . he said he has seen a lot better movies and gives this one only a marginal recommendation . he did like all of animals in it . 
twilight is an atmospheric thriller , which unfortunately isn't much more than that . written and directed by kramer vs . kramer's oscar winning writer and director robert benton , the movie plays like an l . a . confidential-lite . it has the mood down perfect thanks particularly to a richly textured and somber score by elmer bernstein . all of hollywood's old school seem to have parts , but there isn't a single character worth caring about . still , one could think of many worse ways to spend a couple of hours than hanging out with old pros like paul newman , gene hackman and susan sarandon -- too bad their material is rarely worthy of their talents . but , everything is intentionally kept obscure until the end as if the filmmaker was worried that we might leave or fall asleep if he didn't keep everything murky . with the film's glacial pacing , the audience would have been happy to swap a few of the stars for a little more energy . as a chance to see some old hollywood luminaries act together , the show delivers . why they weren't given a decent script is the movie's real mystery . twilight is rated r for nudity , violence , and profanity and would be fine for teenagers . 
some draw the line at shoplifting , some at grand theft , others at guns , and others at much worse crimes . written and directed by the accomplished actor morgan freeman , the film won numerous awards at last year's sundance film festival . with the tone and pacing of a slow , coming-of-age story set in the midwest , the movie , set instead in an inner city , apparently wants the audience to be sympathetic to the kids . the multiracial cast looks like a carefully chosen cross section of society . and although the kids live in relatively poor environments , they act more like middle-class teens . her abusive father -- you can guess that he will be bad because he wears a prominent gold cross -- keeps melena on a tight leash and will not let her go to the party or anywhere at night . the script tries to pull at your heart strings at every turn . the story provides ample hints that its really not their fault . they've been brought up to act this way and don't know any better . what , for example , does one of the adults give marcus for his birthday ? " i might have sold a thing or two -- it's not like killing people or selling drugs , " he argues with the officers . after meandering for over an hour in a landscape of hopelessness , out of the blue the show takes an unrealistic but dramatic twist . the abrupt ending is equally surprising . people left the theater at my screening kind of numb and disinterested . one hopes that in the future freeman will stick to acting , where his talent has few equals . it is rated r for violence and profanity and would be fine for older teenagers . 
lazenby makes the mistake of trying to imitate connery rather than giving his own interpretation to the role , and as we all know , imitations just make us yearn for the genuine article . lazenby , an exceedingly plain looking actor devoid of much personality , lacks connery's handsome face as well as his suave demeanor . he went on to appear in the television soap opera " general hospital " and in many minor films . but , thankfully , he never again attempted the travesty of acting the bond role . ( bond films titillate with hints of nudity and sex while showing neither . the line pokes fun at the switch but also serves to remind us that our old favorite is gone . ( connery will be back two more times as james bond , something we didn't know or even suspect when this movie first played . ) she's so much smarter than lazenby than she seems out of place . even without make-up or fancy clothes her natural beauty dominated the room like a thick perfume . ) when lazenby , as bond , quits in a huff early on in the film , one feels like applauding in the vain hope that connery will return forthwith -- the applause being motivated as much by wanting to dispose of lazenby and his lackluster performance as by getting our old hero back . the story's plot reeks of triviality . spectre's #1 , played this time without much energy by telly savalas rather than the much better donald pleasence , runs an exclusive allergy institute high atop a private , snow-covered mountain . richard maibaum's script doesn't tell us much about spectre's plans until the last third of the movie . that is , unless spectre gets a huge payoff . we're still waiting , however , for thunderball-style personal jetpacks to be available at sharper image . the show has several technical problems . " i hope i can live up to your high standards , " bond says at one point . well , lazenby couldn't and didn't . it is rated pg for violence and sexual innuendo and would be fine for kids around nine and up . my son jeffrey , almost 9 , liked this movie but still likes thunderball the best . he did not like lazenby at all , and he thought the new actor playing spectre's #1 was not creepy enough . he has seen the first 6 bond films now , and he likes this one least of all . 
the opening credits of dangerous beauty , thankfully , say the story is true -- it's based on margaret rosenthal's biography " the honest courtesan . " were it not true , as it claims to be so , the frequently ridiculous , silly plot would have had the audiences laughing at all the wrong places . we learn , for example , that most women of that era , with the exception of courtesans , were not able to read . for those of you who have trouble suspending disbelief in movies , this film may short-circuit your brain . jeannine dominy's screenplay adaptation takes a modern language approach , laced with poetry , that might be termed shakespeare-lite , so there are ample opportunities to ridicule the picture if you are so inclined . but don't get me wrong , as filmed in a romantic haze by bojan bazelli and as sumptuously decorated by norman garwood , the production dazzles the eyes at every turn . even more dazzling and bizarre is the film's opening . ( this much nudity so early in a picture is not a good sign . ) the script likes to include advice , witty and bawdy . the movie has the potential to become a camp classic . although the costumes look authentic , especially the ridiculous eight-inch platform shoes that the courtesans wear , the simple make-up looks exactly like what you see on the street today . she has a book published of her poetry and engages the men in duels of poetry , sometimes lewd but more often not . as absurd as it is at times , the movie , directed by marshall herskovitz from the tv series " my so-called life , " can be quite cute . and with its full plate of romance , jealousy , humor , titillation and even a bit of pathos , it tries to please everyone . but the ending scene , which you've seen a hundred times before , neatly wraps it all up . although parts of the picture are enjoyable , the characters never rise above playacting . like some ribald tale from the playboy channel but with most of the sex scenes edited out , the movie is never sure what it wants to be . it's certainly not soft porn , but neither is it is very substantial . it is rated r for nudity , sex and profanity and would be acceptable for teenagers if they are both older and mature . 
as a category 3 hurricane -- aptly named geraldo -- conveniently makes its way to savannah , the scene of the latest john grisham movie , the predictable plot of the gingerbread man is already so full of holes that the storm is unlikely to do it any damage . robert altman , cinematographer changwei gu and set designer stephen altman set a consistently somber and moody look for the picture . think soggy film noir . in the film's best performance , robert duvall in a tiny part plays mallory's insane father dixon . dixon , a barefoot and dirty recluse , lives with a bunch of neanderthals who act like rejects from a caveman movie . the wonderful courtroom scene where the judge declares him insane shows how good the movie might have been . in a bit of art imitating life , robert downey jr . plays the role with abandon . belting out funny one-liners ( " no offense ma'am , but your dad's always been a few beers shy of a six-pack . " ) and inanities with equal vigor , he tries without success to juice up the picture . not only does the show drag , it is predictable with a capital p . a show this easy to guess makes reviewing it hard without giving key twists away . let me instead cover a few of the show's many minor flaws and plot holes since they are symptomatic of the story's bigger problems . rick drives a red mercedes convertible that stays so highly polished that it looks like it just left the showroom floor , and it keeps this sheen even after driving through rain and muddy roads . if you're a fan of boston blackie style endings , where the hero is chased up a high platform in one final fight to the death , you may be just the target audience for the gingerbread man . others may want to catch this one on video where it would probably have begun were it not for the illustrious cast and crew . it is rated r for nudity , profanity and violence and would be fine for most teenagers . 
roger moore , back for his fifth time as bond , dresses more casually in this outing . wearing a black turtleneck and coat , moore has a body that makes every wardrobe fit him like a glove . without a credible villain or a suitably sinister plot , the show drifts more than it excites . in the de rigueur chase sequence , the movie asks the question : are two fast motorbikes with on-board machine guns more than a match for bond as he escapes with just a pair of skis ? if you don't know the answer , this has to be your first bond movie . after a vague description about facial features , the exact image of the person in question begins to emerge in its monitor from a sketch so crude that it looks like kindergarten art . continuing in its tradition of good visuals , this time our bond travelogue takes us to the sun drenched greek islands with its bikini-clad women and twisting narrow streets . one of my favorite illogical aspects of this bond movie , and every one of them has plenty , is that with two flashlights 600 feet underwater bond and melina brightly illuminate everything in front and back of them . and sure to generate a few chuckles , the attacker's diving suit is an enormous white one that looks like the robot in the old television series , " lost in space . " so what does the device that cost so many lives look like ? a simple keyboard console that presumably contains some secret chips . how one misses goldfinger and the early bond films in which the gadgets had more style and imagination . perhaps this time he is completely dead , but you never know ; he might be resurrected yet again . such is the magic of motion pictures . for your eyes only runs 2 : 07 . it is rated pg for violence and sexual innuendo and would be fine for kids around 9 and up . my son jeffrey , almost 9 , thought the movie was just okay . he liked the ski chase and the underwater parts , but didn't like the way they showed a little blood in the movie . 
writer , director and producer randall wallace's screen version of alexandre dumas's the man in the iron mask will likely be remembered as the one that set the record for the most times that the classic phrase , " one for all and all for one , " is spoken . but none of them are delivered with anything approaching genuine feeling . wallace pays careful attention to the casting and even more to the production itself , but little to the story . the result is an exceedingly beautiful but vapid picture - a costume drama without the drama . why would my people feel anything but pride and contentment ? " ) dicaprio , looking like his fame has gone to his head , nevertheless , overshadows everyone else in this cinematic soap opera . arguably the most beautiful actor or actress in hollywood today , he especially outshines his main romantic conquest in the film , played by a rather plain looking judith godreche . john malkovich gives a didactic reading of the part of athos , which might have worked if the dialog were not so stiff . jeremy irons is the overly sincere priest aramis . and gabriel byrne makes d'artagnan into an excessively somber character , who spews out trite phrases like the rest of them . with peter suschitzky's golden-hued cinematography , nick glennie-smith's sweeping and heavy violin music , anthony pratt's lush sets and james acheson's lavish costumes , the film has much to recommend it . in one particularly stunning scene set beside a babbling brook , the audience is able to soak up the pastoral beauty -- that is until someone starts speaking . the best part of the movie has to be the ending credits . it is only then that we can enjoy the music without fear of some inane dialog shattering our rapture . how about a movie worth caring about ? how about characters who say something more meaningful than , " there is more of me to love than a crown . " how about a production that isn't so devoid of humanity ? and if wallace couldn't have done any of that , couldn't he have at least tried some liberal doses of humor ? unless you have a thing for dicaprio , you're better off renting any of the other adaptations . it is rated pg-13 for swashbuckling violence and some sexual situations and would be fine for kids from around 8 or 9 and up . 
a price above rubies , a languid look at a woman's liberation from the religious ties that bind her , features a nice performance by renee zellweger from jerry maguire in the underwritten role of sonia . religious ridicule is guaranteed to stir up people , and it did during the movie's filming . but if the protestors had seen the finished product , perhaps they would have not been so upset . although yakin shows nothing beneficial in hasidic doctrine , his movie drifts along so slowly and predictably that few will be moved enough to care . there are , however , some interesting portions and the previously mentioned nice performance , but only the one . this whole arrangement angers mendel , but being a classic wimp , he mainly complains and whines about it . one of the story's better scenes has the men and boys arguing the fine points of the torah around the dinner table . fast paced and smartly written it has the energy that the other parts of the film badly lack . it also shows clearly how the men and the women exist in parallel communities much as the men and women do in goodfellas . the beggar , who may or may not be real , makes even less sense . the ending appears designed almost as an after thought , and it fails to work on several levels . with its coldly antiseptic tone , the movie seems more interested in preaching awkwardly to the audience that inviting it in . typical is sonia's little homily in which she tells us , " sometimes i look at men and wonder how god could have created so ugly a creature for women to cling to ? " a price above rubies runs 1 : 57 . it is rated r for sex , profanity , and nudity and would be acceptable for older teenagers . 
mercury rising is another of those tales that the hollywood establishment loves . but even recycled stories full of balderdash can be interesting if written intelligently and cast right . mercury rising's script by lawrence konner and mark rosenthal , based on ryne douglas pearson's novel , doesn't even have sense enough to put in a few twists . the story is so obvious from the beginning that director harold becker doesn't even try to have the actors hide anything as they march to its completely predictable and totally unbelievable conclusion . as kudrow , alex baldwin delivers just such a performance . with bruce willis in the lead , the director keeps the action sequences coming fast and furious , which is a shame since it is during the quieter scenes between art and simon that the movie comes alive . willis displays a remarkable tenderness and compassion for his young charge , and the chemistry between them always seems genuine . the show's funniest scene occurs when , knowing that all the electronic equipment is being monitored , two of the people being trailed buy a typewriter at a flea market to foil the high tech eavesdroppers . but in a show rife with improbabilities , the killer manages to get everything typed on it but leaves behind the used carbon paper , which is in full view . if you check your brain at the door and concentrate on the relationship between art and simon , the movie becomes watchable . and if you're the type that doesn't like surprises , this may be just picture for you . it is rated r for violence and profanity and would be fine for teenagers . 
" how can we bring civilization to the stars if we can't remain civilized ? " welcome to yet another dysfunctional film family , the robinsons . from stephen hopkins , the director of predator 2 and nightmare on elm street 5 , and akiva goldsman , the writer of batman forever and batman & robin , we have a deadly serious treatment of a classic television series that delighted solely on the charm of its goofy props and silly sentences . the cinematic version of lost in space seems to be a didactic franz kafka space story written for older children . so somber in tone , you'll swear this must be a message movie , but looking into the story's thoughts is like staring into a black hole . his crime is that he's been spending too much time at the office and has missed his son's science fair again this year . in the only notable casting in the film , jack johnson plays the intelligent and sweet 10-year-old , will , who controls the robot . as the older daughter judy , lacey chabert , who was the sex kitten in boogie nights , gives a cold performance that only comes alive the few times she manages to smile . in a plot that is either confusing or non-existent - you can choose - the movie limps along between some dazzling but too darkly lit special effects . with all the money they spent , it's too bad they couldn't have afforded a few more light bulbs . but with 750 special effects , as the press notes claim , it is easy to ignore the lack of a script and concentrate on the visuals . ( and on the aforementioned excellent piece of acting in the central role of the boy . ) landing at a random place and time in the future , they get to fight giant spiders like , but not nearly as believable as , the insects in starship troopers . there is a great scene for kids in which will uses a cool looking holographic interface to battle the bugs remotely . the main failing in the picture is not the pathetic script but instead is the way they blow it with the robot . the endearing hunk of junk of the original television series starts off life in the new lost in space as a killer mechanical beast , looking like something straight out of robocop . although the family is saved at the last minute by will , the new robot never achieves the charm of the old . and the movie gets as lost as the family . the picture's morose ending includes equal mixtures of childhood angst , dark ruminations on the effects of absent fathers , and an ugly monster lifted from aliens . it is rated pg-13 for profanity , science fiction violence , and a scary monster and would be fine for kids around nine and up . my son jeffrey , age 9 , gave it * * * * and said he absolutely loved the movie because of all of its space stuff . eliot called it " junk , " and nickolas and matthew complained that it didn't have a story or a plot . 
when a movie like shooting fish has a big heart and three likable leads , a reviewer feels a certain undeniable guilt when he doesn't care much for it . moreover , when you have a picture that has nothing wrong with it , just not enough right with it , the guilt of giving it a mediocre review increases . all of this notwithstanding , shooting fish starts well enough but runs completely out of ideas by the midway point . if ever there was a case for a cute short film , this is it . ah , the scams they pull off . complete with the most amazing and accurate speech input and output system , the machines can be held for just a ten percent deposit , payable immediately . still , one nice set and few comedy sketches does not a full-length movie make . or shouldn't . it is rated pg for a few mild profanities . although acceptable for any age , a kid would have to be at least ten to be at all interested . 
roger moore , still at the peak of his bond form , shows no sign of tiring of the role . well , just remember it's in california . you can figure out the basic idea . walken is surprisingly underutilized and restrained in the film . why director john glen didn't let walken cut loose remains a mystery ? one particularly imaginative sequence in the picture has bond about to be drowned in a sinking car . bond films delight through their travel views of luscious locales as well as their action . in this episode , in addition to paris , we have a magnificently sunny san francisco , albeit mainly the touristy fisherman's wharf area . with a strong cast of supporting characters , including walken , jones , and patrick macnee from " the avengers " and with moore in fine form , the movie , nevertheless , is often a snoozer . the action sequences from steeple chases to fast inflating dirigibles are imaginative , but the story never establishes any rhythm or builds much sustained energy . the net result is a story that has us yearning for those much older bond films that never lost your attention . it is rated pg for comic violence and sexual innuendo and would be fine for kids around nine and up . my son jeffrey , age 9 , gave it * * , saying it was too hard to follow . 
the film immerses us in the minutia of painting from the preparation of the paints to the setting of the scenery scaffolding to the art of choosing just the right naked body to paint . ( nope , that one's too skinny . breasts are too large on that one . dangerous beauty followed a similarly predictable path . valentina cervi plays artemisia with an earnest and unvarying composure . any genuine passion . both of the actors give a rather distant and ethereal reading of their parts , artistic and sexual . the movie spends most of the time drifting along aimlessly . director agnes merlet sets a languid pace that would be in danger of putting the audience to sleep were it not for the frequent nudity and sex . but even with the full-frontal male and female nudity , the sex is as cold as a picture from some cheesy soft porn magazine so some may still find themselves nodding off . although the painting aspect is undeniably interesting , the story wastes most of its time with sexual titillation . why can't we have a film about a woman from that era who prospers without the need for constant disrobing ? the movie is in french with english subtitles . it is not rated but would probably be an r for complete nudity , sex , profanity , and brief violence and would be acceptable for older and mature teenagers . 
sliding doors takes a what-if look at romance . what are those tiny changes that could have had an immense impact on your love life ? who is that special someone that you could have met but didn't because you entered a crowded room a minute too late or too early ? this is the promising premise of sliding doors . the picture then backs up time so that helen just manages to slip through the train's sliding doors . this plot device sets up two parallel universes in which all of the story's characters exist . for those hoping to see tripplehorn recreate some of the animal passion she demonstrated in basic instinct , you'll be sorry to know that she doesn't . first-time writer and director peter howitt uses a bag of old cliches to tell his story . the slowly paced movie switches back and forth between the two scenarios without managing to make either compelling . rarely effective as a comedy or a romance , the film finally finds its footing towards the end when it dips into pathos . with its light-hearted spirit , sliding doors would be a hard film to dislike . on the other hand , if you want more than paltrow's enchanting smile , you would be advised to look elsewhere . sliding doors runs 1 : 45 but feels longer . it is rated r for sex and mild profanity and would be fine for most teenagers . 
from the wonderful director of the joy luck club and the more recent smoke , wayne wang's new film , chinese box , is part romance and part homage to hong kong . his intentions are good , but the delicate story , which he co-wrote , is never allowed to blossom . and the insubstantial script feels like it has " first draft " written all over it . full of the hustle and bustle of hong kong , the handsome cinematography by vilko filac suffers from excessive pixilization during the long video tape sequences that cut into an otherwise luscious picture . john's got a rare form of leukemia and is expected to die about the same time as the hand over - one of the movie's many metaphors . gong li , who was so radiantly beautiful in shanghai triad and so moving in one of my favorite films , to live , plays vivian . the story's best scene has vivian and john dancing close together at a new year's party . their tension is palpable as both are uncomfortable about their unrequited love . although cheung's acting is intriguing , her character serves only to confuse an already unfocused narrative . but the historical portion of the movie is given even shorter shrift than the love story . like john and vivian's love affair , the movie generally leaves you feeling unsatisfied . i would have liked to know them better . the theme of two people who love each other deeply and who want to have an affair but can't has promise , especially with such strong leads . it is rated r for language , brief nudity and some sexual content and would be fine for teenagers . 
long running series , whether on television or in the movies , have to be careful or they'll soon be running strictly on autopilot . so it appears to have happened to the fifteenth episode of the james bond saga , the living daylights . although he has the suave bond look down pat , dalton is missing some key ingredients . bond always has a sense of humor and seems , no matter how successful , to be somehow vulnerable . dalton doesn't crack a smile or ever seem to be in danger . that women want to jump in bed with him is completely convincing , but the rest of his character has a hollowness to it that makes him rarely credible or interesting . bond films are always travelogues in disguise . then it's on to colorful tangiers . cinematographer alec mills makes them all look inviting with the sand-swept desert being the most attractive . jeroen krabbe , who did such a fine job last year in lorca , plays general georgi koskov , a russian defector and double-dealer with a winsome smile , who is whisked away from the russians by 007 . maryam d'abo , resembling a young nastassja kinski , is kara milovy , the cellist and bond's love interest in the film . since he's the only funny part in an all too serious bond rendition , the story would have been better served if he had been given more screen time . the story is too choppy and just meanders from one locale to another without bringing the parts together into a compelling whole . the movie is at its most imaginative when james and kara escape from a falling plane , not with parachutes but in a jeep ! director john glen even manages to stage this ridiculous scene in a semi-plausible fashion . arguably the high point of the film is the display of q's latest gadgets , the best being a ghetto blaster that lives up to its name . the living daylights runs too long at 2 : 10 . it is rated pg for brief male and female nudity and violence and would be fine for kids around 9 or 10 and up . my son jeffrey , age 9 , thought the movie was just " okay . " his overall complaint was that the story was " all pretty much just about bond trying to kill just this one guy . " 
at any minute , the world's most over-hyped giant lizard may stop by for a snack . he's actually hoarding the herring , not eating it , but if i explained that subplot , the studio , which has controlled access to the film as tightly as if were the manhattan project , might send over one of their spare monsters to have me for dinner . it can also be disclosed that , if you've seen the wonderfully imaginative trailers for godzilla , you have already experienced the second best part of the movie . as one of the few film critics who absolutely loved indendence day , i expected godzilla to be at least an absorbing film and probably an adrenaline-pumping action fest . instead , what i got was a movie that is best described as tedious . the script is unable to fashion any characters that are not complete caricatures , and the actors all deliver sophomoric performances . you almost expect him to follow it with , " news at 11 . " as one of the soldiers astutely points out , " we need bigger guns ! " oops , there goes the chrysler building . ( one way to pass the time during the picture is to take along a notepad and try to keep count of the story's illogical elements . ) broderick , who has been good in a host of movies such as addicted to love , plays his part with a single , dumb , wide-eyed expression that looks like he's living on a diet of no-doze . emotionless and detached , he can go nose to nose with the big guy without a hint of fright . he's fond of pointing his little disposable kodak in the dinosaur's eye and snapping flash pictures of him . godzilla is a very understanding ham , who likes to pose . the monster is impressive , but , if you've seen any of the aliens series , you've seen better . overall , the look of the picture is closest to the deservedly unsuccessful aliens 3 . little in the storyline or the action will make you care about what happens on the screen . the movie , thankfully , does pick up the pace and the interest in the ending sequence . but , i regret to report , the ending leaves no doubt that there will be a godzilla 2 , and probably a 3 , 4 , ? godzilla runs needlessly long at 2 : 19 . it is rated pg-13 for monster violence and would be fine for kids around 9 and up , depending on their sensitivity to violence . 
set in a stoned-out 1971 , the movie's central character , raoul , and his sidekick and attorney , dr . gonzo , spend the entire picture ripped , stoned , plastered , wasted , you name it . mainly they are going so they can party using every illegal substance you've ever heard of and some you haven't . as directed by the wildly imaginative terry gilliam from monty python and the holy grail , brazil , the fisher king and twelve monkeys , the comedy starts off so ridiculously that you can expect many people to walk out in disgust . to his credit , depp takes what starts as an almost unwatchably bad movie and manages to make it kind of fascinating . with arms waving at imagined terrors , with feet and legs wobbling so he can barely walk without falling , and with a voice that sounds like it's coming from the bottom of a well , he looks so convincingly drugged out of his mind that you'll want to help him into treatment . depp's performance is so over the top and mesmerizing that he manages to make you care about a highly unsympathetic character . benicio del toro takes a more by the numbers approach to the part of dr . gonzo . he mumbles so many of his lines that he makes his character believable but rarely interesting . a host of actors appear in cameo roles . in one of the film's best scenes , raoul's drugged brain morphs a bar of conventioneers into a group of alien monsters like those in the bar scene in star wars . the special effects in the movie are inventive and the psychedelic colors of the sets by the crow's alex mcdowell are eye-catching . and when the movie gets utterly absurd , as it frequently does , at least the audience is entertained by some great music of the late 60s and early 70s . 
this little soap opera of affairs on top of affairs is even more complicated because of rachel and philip's current situations . ( they manage clandestinely to fondle each other so much in the chair that viewers may come to think of the dental office in an entirely different way . ) ormond has gotten few good roles to display her talents other than sabrina . roth , on the other hand , plays basically the same evil character , and quite well , in most of his films ( hoodlum , pulp fiction , rob roy ) , but the best is his self-parody role in the woody allen musical everyone says i love you . given his long lack of female companionship , the fact that philip falls for someone as beautiful as rachel is completely believable , but that she would fall for the crude looking and acting philip is pretty hard to buy . badly miscast , roth is convincing as a prisoner but not as an irresistible lover . sure . not nearly creepy enough and only sporadically romantic , the film drifts along in fits and spurts . captives's director angela pope is much better in her subsequent film , the devastating hollow reed . it is rated r for a strong sex scene , profanity and violence and would be fine for older and mature teenagers . 
we watch them kiss while rolling over and over in bed so they must be more than just good friends . without the usual explosions or constant violence to punctuate his movie , davis has the cameras instead pan the taylor mansion so frequently that you may think it's the latest installment of " the lifestyles of the rich and famous . " patrick smith kelly's script needs more sharply drawn characters . steven , for example , should be more ruthless and coldly calculating . instead , he's a villain without much of a cinematic punch . as steven's wife , gwyneth paltrow is certainly lovely , but she lacks the visceral vulnerability necessary for the suspense to build properly . paltrow seems more to be in a third parallel universe from sliding doors than in a thriller . badly miscast , mortensen gives a fairly lifeless performance . never threatening or particularly convincing , mortensen looks relatively disinterested in the entire production . his role , which could and should have added an interesting investigative part to the story , is never developed . once david accepts steven's money , the story takes a few twists and turns , but davis stages the scenes without any regard for subtlety . next , we watch steven meticulously covering the fingerprinted materials in case anyone in the audience missed the last obvious clue . davis doesn't want any " surprises " that are not suitably preannounced . with long violin notes , pianos in the low registers , and blaring french horns , we are reminded incessantly that this is a thriller no matter how languid the pacing . having the ingredients for a mystery isn't the same thing as actually creating one . one needs an accomplished chef to prepare the dish , and davis needs explosions and fast actions to concoct a cinematic treat . his blow 'em up extravaganza , chain reaction , was his last movie attempt , and it was a bomb in more ways than one . a thriller without much genuine suspense isn't much of a thriller even if the atmospherics are dead-on as they are in a perfect murder . the picture , however , is instructive . in addition to the wedding ring rule , we learn that , if you're fabulously rich , don't forget those pre-nups . it is rated r for violence , profanity and sex and would be fine for most teenagers . in the san jose area it will be playing at the amc and century theaters . 
the happy but silly rex harrison musical doctor dolittle has been remade into half of a good movie , albeit without any songs . the new movie's menagerie of talking animals , while not exactly babe cute , are quite funny . if the animals could have just eaten all of the humans in the beginning , the animals could have starred in a first-rate production . the terminally boring humans with their dismal lines and their lethargic acting kill an otherwise promising picture . when the animals talk , prepare to laugh . sometimes the humor is directed only at the adults as when one dog in the pound confesses , " i am keyser soze . " " please don't fix me , " he whines . " i won't look at another girl ever . i swear . " the animals are good at physical comedy as well . jumping like a perpetual motion machine , he keeps demanding with a hyperactive cadence , " throw me the ball ; throw me the ball . " the movie's jokes contain so much crude and sexual humor that the filmmakers appear to be targeting an audience just a year or two shy of teenagehood , but the animal antics seem aimed more at the kindergarten and younger grade school set . the one-joke movie wears out its welcome quickly . there are many laughs , but there would have been a lot more if we could have gotten rid of those abysmal humans . it is rated pg-13 for profanity and crude humor and would be fine for kids around nine and up . my son jeffrey , age 9 , laughed long and hard during the movie . 
the cherubic rafael infante , played with charm by popular latin american entertainer chayanne in dance with me , is a klutz when it comes to dancing . in a movie with exactly two " surprises , " one is that rafael as actually an extremely accomplished dancer . his problem is that he is not familiar with the more popular dances . the movie begins with the story's second surprise . the movie devotes considerable time to john and rafael's relationship with little payoff in return . the mystery of their relationship doesn't amount to much , and neither does the movie's unsuccessful attempt at poignancy when the secret is revealed . vanessa williams , who plays ruby , is a perfect match for the equally beautiful chayanne , and the sweet chemistry between them feels genuine . these mini-dramas have little appeal and are not the reason to see the film . people come to see the dancing and hear the music . audiences , however , are likely to be disappointed as director randa haines spends an inordinate amount of time off of the dance floor in a film that inexplicably comes in at over two hours in length . why do the characters spend so much time on boat docks and in truck junkyards when they could be dancing ? the costumes are fun , and multicolored lights bathe the dancers . cinematographer fred murphy , regretfully , thinks it is his job to jazz up the picture with tight close-ups of the dancers' backs and sides . this results in a swirl of images that blur into a montage reminiscent of a late monet painting . it becomes difficult to ascertain the skills of the dancers since we are rarely given the proper perspectives . in contrast , rafael leads with his buttocks in a comical but slightly sensual style of dancing that has to be seen to be believed . dance movies should be energetic , not pensive . dance with me comes alive periodically but spends way too much time with low-grade soap opera material . say what you will about the film , its two stars are charming . dance with me runs too long at 2 : 06 . it is rated pg for a brief male topless scene that sent our audience into a chorus of hoots and giggles . the film would be fine for kids around nine and up . 
the original air bud was a delightful disney film in the old yeller tradition of a boy and his dog . more than a comedy , it was a touching little film with some very sweet scenes . its sequel , air bud : golden receiver , shares little with the spirit of the original . it stars a golden retriever , but not the original one . the film has the same writers as before , paul tamasy and aaron mendelsohn , but the script they came up with less than a year later feels rushed . totally devoid of ideas other than letting a dog run around on a football field , the movie has lame jokes and ineffective subplots . all of the rest of the actors are different . they do share a common trait in being given little of interest to say or do . typical of the recycled humor is the date that comes to see josh's mom ( cynthia stevenson ) . there will be much made of josh's resentment that his mother is dating , but the director , richard martin , the second unit director on air bud , is unable to stage these scenes with any genuine feelings . of all the ridiculous subplots , the one of the stupid russian animalnappers is the worst . the movie would be infinitely better and fifteen minutes shorter without them . only on the field does the movie work . when buddy lines up , does calisthenics , or whatever , he is funny . but this sight gag is not enough to sustain a full-length movie . dick plays a senile man who offers such colorful remarks as the way to win is to score more points than the other team . one would hope that seniors' groups might picket the movie . ) one part of the movie that is refreshing , albeit not especially believable , is that the coach isn't really interested very much in winning . it is rated g and would be fine for all ages . my son jeffrey , age 9 , really liked the film , giving it * * * * . 
late in 54 , the latest movie about the death of disco , there is a revealing scene . the dialog is as dull as the costumes are flashy . ryan phillippe , unfortunately , gets the pretty boy look right but nothing else . the casting of such a weak lead is one of the film's many problems . myers , whose sole expression in the picture is a frozen toothy grin , should stick to comedy . he demonstrates no emotional range as a dramatic actor . in the most embarrassing scene for myers , steve , stoned out of his mind , propositions a very reluctant , heterosexual busboy . no one objects , although the clap turns out to be one of this promiscuity's downsides . when two movies are released in the same year about the same topic , comparisons are inevitably made . whit stillman's the last days of disco is full of fascinating characters and an intriguing story . the script is so richly textured that it takes at least two viewings to ponder and laugh at all of its subtly humorous dialog . if you've seen stillman's film , there is no reason to see 54 . and if you haven't , pass on 54 and wait until the last days of disco makes its way to video . it is rated r for sex , nudity , profanity , and pervasive drug usage . the film would be acceptable for teenagers only if they are older and mature . 
rush hour , regardless of what you may have read , is not a jackie chan movie . whereas it is true that jackie chan , one of the more engagingly delightful actors around , does appear in the movie , it is not the typical chan project to showcase his comedic brand of martial arts skills . director brett ratner , director of the widely-panned money talks , lacks much sense of action or comedic timing . rush hour drifts aimlessly for large portions , especially when chan isn't in the frame . the script by joel cohen and alec sokolow has some good laughs , but it isn't written nearly smart enough and frequently feels the need to sink to bad racial humor . people who haven't seen the talented chan in action may not be as disappointed as those who have become his fans . non-fans will undoubtedly enjoy the few times chan is allowed to cut loose , but those who have seen him at his best will likely be frustrated . chan's charms come as much from his sweet cherubic demeanor as his athletic skills and daring stunts . rush hour features chan as an untypically dour character whose seriousness gets in the way of his allure as an action hero with childlike innocence . philip baker hall and many other fine character actors are given nothing to do in the picture but collect a paycheck . viewers' degree of tolerance for tucker's brand of over-the-top , slapstick humor will be a major determinate of how much they like rush hour . at times he is extremely funny . most of the film plods along with the audience hoping that jackie will finally get some more screen time and be allowed to show off his skills . the only completely successful part of the film is the series of outtakes shown during the closing credits . but any film where the outtakes are dramatically better than the " intakes " is clearly in trouble . if the director had thrown out the script , left the set , and just filmed the characters ad-libbing , he would have had a superior product . it is rated pg-13 for violence and profanity and would be fine for kids around ten and up . 
rush hour , regardless of what you may have read , is not a jackie chan movie . whereas it is true that jackie chan , one of the more engagingly delightful actors around , does appear in the movie , it is not the typical chan project to showcase his comedic brand of martial arts skills . director brett ratner , director of the widely-panned money talks , lacks much sense of action or comedic timing . rush hour drifts aimlessly for large portions , especially when chan isn't in the frame . the script by joel cohen and alec sokolow has some good laughs , but it isn't written nearly smart enough and frequently feels the need to sink to bad racial humor . people who haven't seen the talented chan in action may not be as disappointed as those who have become his fans . non-fans will undoubtedly enjoy the few times chan is allowed to cut loose , but those who have seen him at his best will likely be frustrated . chan's charms come as much from his sweet cherubic demeanor as his athletic skills and daring stunts . rush hour features chan as an untypically dour character whose seriousness gets in the way of his allure as an action hero with childlike innocence . philip baker hall and many other fine character actors are given nothing to do in the picture but collect a paycheck . viewers' degree of tolerance for tucker's brand of over-the-top , slapstick humor will be a major determinate of how much they like rush hour . at times he is extremely funny . most of the film plods along with the audience hoping that jackie will finally get some more screen time and be allowed to show off his skills . the only completely successful part of the film is the series of outtakes shown during the closing credits . but any film where the outtakes are dramatically better than the " intakes " is clearly in trouble . if the director had thrown out the script , left the set , and just filmed the characters ad-libbing , he would have had a superior product . it is rated pg-13 for violence and profanity and would be fine for kids around ten and up . 
after a long and highly publicized sojourn in release purgatory , the new version of lolita has finally made it into wide release at the theaters . the immediate question is was it worth all the fuss ? directed by adrian lyne in his usual flashy manner , the film lacks the literary feel and substance of stanley kubrick's 1962 classic starring james mason , shelley winters , sue lyon and peter sellers . jeremy irons with his sad , pensive eyes specializes in playing tragic characters . as humbert humbert , especially in the narration , he puts just the perfectly hopeless spin on the role that lyne wants . irons , who is never less than riveting , rises way above the rest of the presentation . his narrations of vladimir nabokov's rich text from the novel are the film's high points . the major problem with the production is the casting of dominique swain as lolita . her overly " cute " mannerisms almost single-handedly sink the picture . one of the least natural of actresses , her acting shows through on every scene and gets in the way of our ever taking the film seriously . the other two principles in the cast , melanie griffith as charlotte haze and frank langella as clare quilty , are perfectly satisfactory but little more . much is made of lolita's innocence . these displays of mock immaturity are directly contradicted by her actions , so few are credible . exquisitely filmed by howard atherton with a lovely gloss , the movie has meticulously constructed period sets . but lyne has little sense of proportion . he flaunts his reconstruction of " magic finger " beds and " tee pee " motels so often that one might think the movie was a smithsonian documentary . already too long , the film should have had most of these period homages cut . what purpose is served with detailed close-ups of the production of an old-fashioned ice cream float ? the movie ends badly in every sense of the word . do we really need all that gratuitous gore ? please ! it is rated r for aberrant sexuality , violence , nudity and profanity and would be acceptable for teenagers only if they are both older and mature . 
as you were enjoying your last woody allen movie , did you sit there thinking that his angst-filled , raunchy brand of humor would be perfect for all ages if his language was just cleaned up a bit and he was made into a cartoon character ? if so , then you are part of the target audience for antz , since that is exactly what dreamworks has created . who else might possibly be members of the target audience is the big question . in our packed screening , the kids fidgeted , laughing only at the cuss words , the adults enjoyed a few tidbits tossed their way , but , overall , it was one of the deadest early screenings for a major motion picture that i've ever attended . personally , i sat there in stone silent disbelief , wondering what the studio thought they were doing . take pixar's marvelously innovative toy story , drain off most of the humor and darken the film's look and tone , and , voila , you have dreamworks's antz . z , the film's hero , is a non-conformist who ends up inciting trouble in the ranks . the dreadfully dull script , full of droll but laughless humor , is by todd alcott , chris weitz and paul weitz . the talky script has few memorable lines . z argues , in of the few good lines , as a better approach than a war with the termites . ) woody's voice is emotive , but the rest of the voices came across as flat and uninteresting . like pixar's toy story , the film is created with computer generated images , but few of those in antz are impressive . a scene with a water drop and another at a picnic show off the new medium at its best , but the rest of the work remains fairly pedestrian . the eyes of the characters , for example , look like glass eyes , and the film is usually so dimly lit that it frequently looks murky . although the target audience is questionable , certainly a lot of kids will to flock to see the movie . given this , why can't they be served up something more involving than a few mild obscenities to tickle their funny bones ? why do we have characters who talk about " erotic fantasies " and who tell others to " bite me ! " the images , like the body-parts-everywhere , massacre scene , lifted straight out of starship troopers , and the vicious termites with their menacing teeth , will likely scare the younger viewers . having taken such little advantage of the technology , the mystery is why dreamworks didn't just use traditional animation . and the other mystery surrounds dreamworks next animated movie , the prince of egypt . if they were unable to fashion a compelling motion picture out of such a promising story , how successful are they going to be in translating a biblical epic to animation ? it is rated pg for profanity and frightening images and would be acceptable for kids around 6 and up . my son jeffrey , age 9 , gave the film * * * . 
for those of you who thought neil labute's latest cinematic diatribe , your friends & neighbors , was too upbeat , happiness is just the film for you . writer and director todd solondz , who burst onto the motion picture landscape a couple of years ago with the widely acclaimed welcome to the dollhouse , is back with his second film , happiness , which is about people who are anything but . ( for the record , i had solondz's first picture at the absolute top of my best of the year list in 1996 . it was the best example in years of what an indie film could be . it had unknown actors in a low budget production that had more insights and depth than ten normal films . the actors in it have not had much subsequent success , but , since the movie's brilliance stemmed mainly from the director's creative energies , solondz's second film has been much anticipated . ) " it's you . " and joy is the nicest character in the movie . andy comes unglued with this brutal display of honesty . critics see such a wide variety of films that we become fairly thick skinned , but this film managed to create major feelings of revulsion in me . happiness , a probable winner in the " downer movie of the decade " category , tries hard to shock its audience and succeeds . unlike his mesmerizing first endeavor , solondz's second film offers few insights , contenting itself with operating solely on the surface level . like a facade on a movie set , if you look beneath the glossy surface and the talented cast , there's not much there . the relentless happy music may lure some into snickering , which would be rather akin to laughing during a funeral . philip seymour hoffman plays a flabby , obscene caller named allen , who is almost incapable of even conversing with a female . well , there are a few flaws in their domestic bliss . besides the excellent acting , there are many things to admire in happiness . films can be hard to take and yet extremely rewarding -- in the company of men , for example . it is fine for films to be hard to stomach if the payoff is there , but happiness provides none . it pushes the envelope of decency only to see how far it can go , like some child pushing the limits to see how much he can get away with . leaving the theater , your reaction is liable to be complete disgust as if you have been violated in some insidious way . happiness is such a gut wrenching experience that they should give out " i survived happiness ! " t-shirts in the lobby afterwards . happiness runs needlessly long at 2 : 14 as if solondz wants to prolong the agony . the film isn't rated but would be nc-17 for suicide , murder , rape , masturbation , violence , sex , profanity , pedophilia , etc . the film is for adults only . 
for those of you who thought neil labute's latest cinematic diatribe , your friends & neighbors , was too upbeat , happiness is just the film for you . writer and director todd solondz , who burst onto the motion picture landscape a couple of years ago with the widely acclaimed welcome to the dollhouse , is back with his second film , happiness , which is about people who are anything but . ( for the record , i had solondz's first picture at the absolute top of my best of the year list in 1996 . it was the best example in years of what an indie film could be . it had unknown actors in a low budget production that had more insights and depth than ten normal films . the actors in it have not had much subsequent success , but , since the movie's brilliance stemmed mainly from the director's creative energies , solondz's second film has been much anticipated . ) " it's you . " and joy is the nicest character in the movie . andy comes unglued with this brutal display of honesty . critics see such a wide variety of films that we become fairly thick skinned , but this film managed to create major feelings of revulsion in me . happiness , a probable winner in the " downer movie of the decade " category , tries hard to shock its audience and succeeds . unlike his mesmerizing first endeavor , solondz's second film offers few insights , contenting itself with operating solely on the surface level . like a facade on a movie set , if you look beneath the glossy surface and the talented cast , there's not much there . the relentless happy music may lure some into snickering , which would be rather akin to laughing during a funeral . philip seymour hoffman plays a flabby , obscene caller named allen , who is almost incapable of even conversing with a female . well , there are a few flaws in their domestic bliss . besides the excellent acting , there are many things to admire in happiness . films can be hard to take and yet extremely rewarding -- in the company of men , for example . it is fine for films to be hard to stomach if the payoff is there , but happiness provides none . it pushes the envelope of decency only to see how far it can go , like some child pushing the limits to see how much he can get away with . leaving the theater , your reaction is liable to be complete disgust as if you have been violated in some insidious way . happiness is such a gut wrenching experience that they should give out " i survived happiness ! " t-shirts in the lobby afterwards . happiness runs needlessly long at 2 : 14 as if solondz wants to prolong the agony . the film isn't rated but would be nc-17 for suicide , murder , rape , masturbation , violence , sex , profanity , pedophilia , etc . the film is for adults only . 
full of marvelously creative and colorful images and energetic music , the movie represents the extended rock video approach to filmmaking . the images are casually and confusingly assembled into a musical montage a la mtv . after this fairy tale is sprinkled on , the story quickly shakes off the pixie dust and moves back into a more traditional storyline . the movie then skips back in time again to examine brian's life . the movie makes much of his bisexuality , with orgies of groupies being common . a complete opposite , curt exudes raw masculinity and likes nothing better than taking off his clothes on stage to shock his fans . curt wears tight-fitting jeans without a shirt , whereas the effeminate brian favors long , flowing gowns and bright , psychedelic colors . the film periodically develops pretentious streaks as it attempts to find meaning in its subjects . the implication is that morals are unimportant if his star can develop sufficient fame . the energetic film is full of good music , even mahler's 6th makes several appearances , but comes to a grinding halt in the last half hour as it decides to get serious . only as a colorful rock video does the film succeed . the dialog and the storyline are merely distractions . even with its limitations as a motion picture , at least velvet goldmine is exceedingly picturesque . it is rated r for strong sexual content , nudity , profanity and drug usage and would be unacceptable for most teenagers . 
takuro yamashita , played by koji yakusho from the indie smash hit shall we dance ? , is the japanese equivalent of an average joe , what they call a salaryman . set in the japanese countryside that is rarely shown to american audiences , the film is handsomely photographed by shigeru komatsubara . the scenes of the fishing boats at twilight are particularly striking . they carry a little lamp to cut through the fog , and its light casts a lovely glow . the film , which won the palm d'or award last year at cannes , is directed by shohei imamura . the story contains numerous metaphorical references to takuro's pet eel . the eel runs too long at 1 : 57 . the film is in japanese with english subtitles . it is not rated but would be an r for violence , sex and nudity and would be acceptable for teenagers only if they are older and mature . 
the question is whether it was a meaninglessly brief three-second encounter or a more significant full five . a host of studios stand at the ready to deliver the r-rated slasher flicks and the crude sexual humor movies that teenagers flock to in droves . there aren't many studios , however , who still attempt to make a buck off of innocent , pg-rated fare featuring teens . disney is one of the few , and , even if they sometimes come up with harmless duds like i'll be home for christmas , they should be commended for trying . the jokes in the movie are so silly that some of the laughs become almost embarrassing . the most awkward aspect of the movie is the dialog . written at a junior high school level , the setting at a college campus seems inappropriate . the kid locked in his locker routine , for example , isn't something that usually occurs in a college movie . the setup for the road picture is that jake's dad has made a deal with him . the casting of jessica biel as allie is a nice and unexpected touch . she seems much more likely to hang out at the library than the mall . this is a small movie that will probably be long gone way before christmas . one supposes that the marketing department was worried about the crush of all of the movies opening at christmas . even if it is generally lame , the movie is not without its charms . in one nice visual , there is a 5k race open only to people in full santa claus regalia . lose your hat or beard , and you're disqualified . it is rated pg for a few , quite mild profanities and would be fine for the whole family . my son jeffrey , age 9 , thought the film was " really good " and gave it * * * ? . 
american history x , director tony kaye's vitriolic movie , paints an unflinching portrait of an america filled with uncontrollable racial hatred . starring edward norton as derek vinyard , the proudly racist leader , the film partially overcomes david mckenna's ridiculously vituperative script by the force of norton's performance . the movie is such balderdash that , were it not for the seriousness of the subject matter , one might find it laughable . norton , a chameleon of an actor , sheds the mousy look of his roles in everyone says i love you and the people vs . using the explosiveness he showed in his oscar nominated performance in primal fear , he brings a chilling credibility to the role of a hate monger and killer . in short , he is the reason , and the only reason , to see the movie . without him , the ludicrous picture would be close to unbearable . the movie jumps backward and forward in time with all periods filled with long diatribes of racial epithets . the supporting cast covers all the stereotypes . the manipulative film , when it isn't spewing racial slurs , uses images to toy with our emotions . anne dudley's score for the film is impressive , but misplaced . full of long violin notes and dramatic kettledrums , it strongly punctuates a film that needs some subtly . american history x runs 1 : 57 . it is rated r for graphic brutal violence including rape , pervasive profanity , sex and nudity . it should be considered nc-17 and would be acceptable only for the maturest teenagers . 
the rugrats movie , being little more than a magnified version of the television series , will undoubtedly be well received by its fans . those who think that movies should be more than extended length television shows will likely be disappointed . and parents of kids younger than 5 or 6 may be shocked to find all the frightening images and gross humor in an inappropriately rated g movie . given the popularity of the series with the preschool set , the audience is likely to be filled with that age group . the very talky picture is only sporadically funny . in the film's first act , the pickles have a new arrival . get it ? dil pickles . the kids in the audience may not get it , but it is one of the few jokes thrown to the adults to keep them awake . she grabs a pacifier and sticks it firmly in the dad's mouth . although filled with bright colors , the film's animation has a cheap two-dimensional look to it as if they did the same slapdash job expected for a kid's television show . the backgrounds are almost always static with only the characters given motion . the reason that another production company , pixar , has deservedly won so much praise for their movies stems first from the imagination of the storyline with the technology being an important second . the rugrats movie fails on both of these measures . the scary story about young kids lost in the wilderness has no more originality than one would find in a weekly , television cartoon series . parents have a right to expect that g-rated movies should , without question or research in advance , be acceptable for all ages . the rugrats movie may find parents of little tykes feeling a need to walk out of the theater . the list of questionable activities for a g-rated movie is long , so i'll just touch on a few of them . to be fair , directors igor kovalyov and norton virgien put a happy gloss on the scary images . even if your kids have long since been anesthetized to violence , there is still the issue of the bathroom , or more precisely the poopy , humor . we have kids peeing in the air to make a rainbow . boys look in their diapers to complain about circumcision . there is a vomit scene , and the movie is filled with defecating baby jokes . one of the characters sums it up well , " hey , this is more fun than picking noses . " and that is exactly what your preschoolers may tell you before the ending credits roll . the rugrats movie runs 1 : 19 . it is inappropriately rated g and would be fine for kids older than 5 or 6 . people older than 10 will find little of interest in the movie . my son jeffrey , age 9 , said that he's always loved the tv show , and this movie has the same activities so he really liked it . 
yes , that is the obvious question . why would director gus van sant want to reconstruct the alfred hitchcock classic from 1960 , psycho ? and why , instead of reinterpreting it , did he actually recreate the film shot-by-shot with precisely the same timing and camera angles . the question is why -- other than curiosity -- would audiences want to see it ? it is here that van sant provides no answers . whereas the original was fascinating and shocking , the reconstruction is bland and lifeless . the reconstruction could easily be summarized in a single word -- tedious . the reconstruction is well cast but not well acted . vince vaughn isn't particularly creepy as norman bates . the normally emotive anne heche plays marion crane with facial expressions that border on blank slates . heche delivers probably the weakest performance of her career . to be fair , both actors may just have been following the director's instructions , but it is truly a shame to see such talent wasted . and they aren't the only excellent actors to appear in the film . are there any differences ? well , not many other than the obvious one of a switch to color from the black-and-white original . there are a few modest changes , but i'll let you discover them . keeping your eye out for them is one of the few ways to pass the time while waiting for the movie to end . one particularly infuriating semi-change is that the director can't make up his mind on the time period . the result is just as strange . why one would want to see either dead animals or a dead movie is the mystery . it is rated r for violence , nudity and sex and would be fine for teenagers . 
you've always suspected that your teachers were aliens . mixing equal measures of invasion of the body snatchers , aliens , and scream , kevin williamson's script is smart enough to realize it is a parody . never taking itself seriously , the film may not be much of a movie , but at least it's not a pretentious one . as directed by robert rodriguez , the film layers gobs of horror film gore onto what is basically a science fiction plot . the aliens , you see , are a moisture-craving species . ) the movie uses stereotypes to advance the comedy . been taken more literally . it is rated r for horror movie violence , profanity , brief nudity , and drug usage and would be fine for most teenagers . 
director chris columbus's stepmom , which would have more appropriately been titled mommy's dying , wants to be two movies . as seen in the film's light-hearted trailers , stepmom wants to be a comedic look at the perils of being a stepmother , and , indeed , the movie's first act sticks to that plan . rather than examining the relatively unexplored territory of stepmothering , the movie wants , most of all , to be another terminal illness picture , of which we have one a month . the maudlin script , by a committee of no less than 5 writers , expects you to bring extra tissues and use every one of them . in a stellar performance , susan sarandon plays jackie , the obsessively prepared and sanctimonious mother . the treacly script has a throwaway and not credible subplot about her being fired for trying to mix a career with parenting . " mommy , if you want me to hate her i will , " he tells jackie with a sincere innocence . well , duh ! the film is at its best when it tries to grapple with the issues and conflicts surrounding divorce and remarriage . " can i move out ? " the by-the-numbers plot has isabel taking the kids to central park while she conducts a photo shoot . - gets lost , which makes isabel feel very bad about not being a dutiful parent like jackie . and jackie gets to rant and rave and generally feel superior . try as hard as they can , the superlative acting by sarandon and roberts can not overcome the schmaltzy material . manipulative to the end , the movie prolongs jackie's dying as long as possible . it wants to wring every last tear possible out of the audience . stepmom runs too long at 2 : 04 . it is rated pg-13 for profanity , thematic elements and dope smoking and would be fine for teenagers . 
even though there is little to eat at their place other than moldy ding-dongs , they always have an expensive stash of cocaine and other drugs . in what is supposed to be an indictment of the non-existent morals among some in the movie business , the characters spend little time on the job . the script by david rabe , based on his play , is unfocused and almost incomprehensible . perhaps it worked on the stage , but the film version is a disaster that is only made partially watchable by some wonderful ensemble acting by a talented crew , who play characters bent upon various forms of self-destruction . in his usual masterful performance kevin spacey displays what passes for sanity in an insane environment . " i'm a real person ! " that sean penn can do such overblown parts without overacting is a testament to his abilities . " i know i don't know what i mean , which is better than most people , " eddie confesses towards the end . the extremely talky script revels in its obtuseness , with easily half of the conversation being conducted on cell phones . most lines make no sense whatsoever , although some are so ridiculous that they are downright funny . phil is such a lowbrow that any intellectual activity might short-circuit his brain . mickey looks briefly like he will be affected but blows it off with a joke about how at least they didn't set the kid on fire . you'll probably feel the same way about the movie . " what's he talking about ? " this is a question that the audience will be asking themselves throughout most of the movie . it is rated r for pervasive drug abuse , sex , profanity and brief nudity . i would consider the film not acceptable for those younger than college age . 
children of heaven ( bacheha-ye aseman ) , written and directed by majid majidi , is less a movie than a visual pantomime of a short story . the thin narrative and sparse dialog almost dares critics not to like it by imbuing just about every character with near sainthood . add in the amateurish acting , and you would seem to have a recipe for a film that will cause people to smile politely and try think of kind things to say . the director does fashion a few nice visuals . another lovely little image has kids blowing soap bubbles at each other . too often , however , he runs out of ideas and just films the same ugly alleyway , again and again . using little dialog , the film sticks to the visuals to tell the bulk of its story . the movie's best sequence occurs when the father gets inside the gates and views the exterior of one of the elaborate homes . many obvious questions are never answered . the movie does contain one amazing scene . we actually see the kids doing homework ! kids all over america do this everyday -- except in american movies . children of heaven runs just 1 : 28 . the film is in persian with english subtitles . it is not rated but would be a g since nothing even remotely offensive occurs . the picture would be fine for all ages , but kids would probably need to be at least 9 to be interested . 
" do you always make girls cry ? " the script is by a series of writers ( steve levitt , irwin winkler and rob cowan ) so one cannot be sure to whom to attribute which lines , but , since all the lines are consistently sappy , perhaps it doesn't matter . val kilmer , who is only slightly better than in his atrocious performances in the island of dr . virgil's blind , but , as is de rigueur in such cinematic situations , amy will not realize this for a while , and , when she does , she will be suitably embarrassed and apologize profusely . the acting by the two leads has a certain symmetry . sorvino is as honestly open and giving in her performance as kilmer is self-absorbed . it was probably inevitable that a movie with this title would have some " sight " gags , but do they have to have so many ? ad nauseam . the movie is cluttered with characters and subplots which add little other than time to the picture . as likeable as the female lead is and as fascinating as the subject matter is , the movie slowly falls apart in front of your eyes . at first sight runs too long at 2 : 08 . it is rated pg-13 for sexual situations and a little profanity and would be fine for teenagers . 
" talking about love is like dancing about architecture . " ( the film's original title was dancing about architecture , but they were forced into changing it before its release since the title was deemed too close in name to dancing at lughnasa . ) the characters , who appear on a virtual revolving stage , do exactly that -- talk incessantly , in excessively " clever " monologues , about love . pairs of actors deliver most of the speeches , but the actors frequently sound like they are addressing the audience and not each other . the story switches every few minutes between the seemingly disjoint stories in the same way that the old carousel of progress at disneyland kept rotating the audience to a new stage . eventually and predictably , the movie , written and directed by willard carroll , brings all of the disparate pieces together like a jigsaw puzzle that is solved , miraculously , by dropping all of the pieces on the floor . there is only one true surprise in the story's resolution , which does provide some much-needed humor in an otherwise sappy script . this same basic plot format worked successfully in robert altman's short cuts , but playing by heart doesn't have the same intelligent level of writing as short cuts . looking handsomer every year , sean connery plays the male half of the older couple in the play -- oops , i mean movie , although it certainly feels like a play . they have agreeable little arguments in which he says things like , " there isn't anything to talk about ; of course there is , but i don't want to talk about it . " like most of the movie , things are transparently not what they appear to be on the surface . and by hugh's second fake story , you can begin to see what is going on . whether you care or not , given the cloying level of the pseudo-sophisticated dialog , is questionable . " i'm better at all the lies i've manufactured than the lies i'm living , " hugh confesses . the cynical and melancholy movie wants to be romantic and message-rich , but comes across instead as stilted and dishonest as hugh's barroom prevarications . playing by heart runs 2 : 01 . it is rated r for profanity , sexual situations and mature themes and would be fine for teenagers . 
although it is a bit easier in a stage play than a movie , few people can single-handedly carry an almost hour and a half production with a single unbroken monologue . his rapid-fire delivery and his fascinating material mesmerizes his audiences even if his overabundant exhilaration can exhaust them . god said 'ha ! , ' written and directed by and starring julia sweeney , is a one person play that was filmed in front of a live audience and is being released to movie theaters . the live audience supplies the equivalent of an annoying television laugh track . as julie talks non-stop , the studio audience guffaws at her every phrase . you begin to feel guilty for not laughing on cue , and you find yourself subconsciously looking around the movie theater for one of those obnoxious , neon " laugh ! " julia sweeney , while a completely likeable and utterly confident actress , is no spalding gray . her only slightly quirky brand of humor does produce several smiles albeit few laughs . trying to move a play to the screen without making any changes is almost always a bad idea . although there are the exceptional performers like spalding gray who can pull this off , it is a feat better not attempted . julia sweeney gives it her best shot but only sporadically succeeds . god said 'ha ! ' it is rated pg-13 for mature themes and some drug references and would be fine for teenagers . 
a * * * * movie classic from 1987 , it was released theatrically by disney but was basically ignored . featuring a cast of mainly unknown voices in a low-budget production , it is worth renting again and again . sadly , the same cannot be said of its recent direct-to-video sequel , the brave little toaster goes to mars . one viewing is more than sufficient . one hopes the second , and purportedly the last , sequel will prove more imaginative . the series's appliances are among the most lovable animated characters in modern motion pictures . there are also a whole host of unnecessary new characters to clutter up what should be a simple story and cast . carroll , whose most recent movie , playing by heart , suffered from stiff dialog with excessive cleverness , comes up with a script this time that is almost terminally bland . the basic setup for the plot holds little promise , and carroll finds little interesting to do with it . or as our hero , the toaster , puts it better , " the little master has been spacenapped ! " the original movie had a cornucopia of sweetly hilarious lines that were full of poignancy and pathos . the deeply empathetic , little appliances were absolutely lovable . they still are , but this time they are being held hostage in a lackluster movie that isn't worthy of them . in order to pad the time to get the movie past the minimum time necessary to be considered a full-length feature , they inject a half-dozen , imminently forgettable songs . a helium , hippie balloon that's been floating in space since woodstock , sings one especially dull one . once the appliances get to mars , any hope for them to encounter some well-drawn villains , who could add some much-needed tension to the movie , vanishes . they shout , but they are far from threatening . the only truly funny part of the movie comes in the casting of a cameo . for the part of the faucet , they chose -- who else ? -- farrah fawcett . it is not rated but would certainly be a g , as it is appropriate for all ages . my son jeffrey , age 9 , kind of liked the movie , especially the character of blanky , and gave it * * . he complained that the sequel was a little stupid and the songs were not memorable . a big fan of the original , he thought this one wasn't near as good . 
pssst , if you'll be very quiet , i'll sneak you inside the locked doors of one of hollywood's creative departments where some multimillion-dollar executives are planning their next movie . this is quite fortuitous , since it came close to hitting bonanza instead . with bonanza , they'd have to hire a big cast and do expensive location shooting , but , with a movie like my favorite martian , they can make it much cheaper . they need someone to write the script . stoner and oliver whipped out a quick , if bland , script for casper , another remake , so they could probably be counted on to do the same for my favorite martian . but as luck would have it , robin turns out to have been in a different old tv show , one called " mork & mindy . " such is the problem of being a 25-year-old executive , your memory only stretches back so far . they'll ask the writers to put in as much sexual innuendo as possible and throw in a bit of nudity - although not by her , it turns out - just so long as the movie gets no worse than a pg rating . my favorite martian runs just 1 : 32 . it got the pg rating they needed even with the sexual innuendo , brief nudity , mild profanity and monsters that will scare some little ones . they figure , probably correctly , that the film is appropriate for all ages even if they did push some limits . my son jeffrey , age 9 , probably summed it up best . he said that the movie was little more than a 30 minute tv show and gave it just * ? . 
in writer and director juliane glantz's wilbur falls , the characters are all quirky , but none are interesting enough to care about . using it almost like an office and private meditation chamber , he spends hours there reading . the body of the movie , which you might expect to be about her worrying about being discovered and about what actually happened , is instead packed with a series of unrelated subplots . it is as if first-time writer and director glantz wanted to get every idea she ever had into her first movie . although not a bad movie , it plays more like a series of sketches that someone might show to a producer with the idea that the producer would chose which one to develop . glantz shows some raw promise in the film . hopefully her second film will be more focused and have a few compelling characters . it is not rated but would probably be an r for brief profanity , nudity , sexuality and mature themes and would be fine for teenagers . 
a walk on the moon , actor tony goldwyn's directorial debut , takes place at a low-budget jewish resort in the catskills -- think dirty dancing but set in cheap cabins and without any dancing . the time is the summer of 1969 and period events like the first walk on the moon and the woodstock music festival get prominent placement in the storyline although the movie has little to do with either one . the well cast movie is glacially paced as if it were in some sort of trance . except for one completely predictable and brief bit of dramatic tension that occurs in the middle , the movie drifts along like a sailing ship lost in a placid sea without any wind to provide momentum . the actors , for all of their talent , never seem engaged . after a couple of meetings , they are off having sex , movie style , under waterfalls as well as in slightly more conventional and believable places like in his bus . " you had your chance . " " no , i didn't , " pearl complains . since the film is almost devoid of dramatic tension , it could have used some humor to give it some spark of energy . " i'm a bad listener . i'm not a very good talker either . " regretfully , such insightful lines like these rarely occur in a walk on the moon . instead , the movie just limps along until it runs out the clock , having never accomplished anything . the only memorable parts of the movie are a few good woodstock songs , but you probably already know them anyway . a walk on the moon runs 1 : 45 but feels longer . it is rated r for sex , nudity , profanity and drug usage and would be fine for older teenagers . 
a walk on the moon , actor tony goldwyn's directorial debut , takes place at a low-budget jewish resort in the catskills -- think dirty dancing but set in cheap cabins and without any dancing . the time is the summer of 1969 and period events like the first walk on the moon and the woodstock music festival get prominent placement in the storyline although the movie has little to do with either one . the well cast movie is glacially paced as if it were in some sort of trance . except for one completely predictable and brief bit of dramatic tension that occurs in the middle , the movie drifts along like a sailing ship lost in a placid sea without any wind to provide momentum . the actors , for all of their talent , never seem engaged . after a couple of meetings , they are off having sex , movie style , under waterfalls as well as in slightly more conventional and believable places like in his bus . " you had your chance . " " no , i didn't , " pearl complains . since the film is almost devoid of dramatic tension , it could have used some humor to give it some spark of energy . " i'm a bad listener . i'm not a very good talker either . " regretfully , such insightful lines like these rarely occur in a walk on the moon . instead , the movie just limps along until it runs out the clock , having never accomplished anything . the only memorable parts of the movie are a few good woodstock songs , but you probably already know them anyway . a walk on the moon runs 1 : 45 but feels longer . it is rated r for sex , nudity , profanity and drug usage and would be fine for older teenagers . 
the commissioner is a film that is as cold and flat as a brussels winter , where the film is set . if you think making a suspense story about the european commission would not exactly be a natural , you'd be right . as the backdrop for a political thriller , it doesn't have much credible oomph . christina kallas's script is filled with macho industrialists spouting pompous , hackneyed lines , like " remember this , james , the weak perish . " my personal " favorite " is the rich american capitalist with the large cowboy hat , who warns , without cracking a smile , " cemeteries are filled with people who underestimated me . " it's enough to make students want to bypass chemical engineering and business majors as too malevolent . in a slow movie that suffers from a lack of twists , the ending twist is laughably implausible . only john hurt's performance partially saves the movie . it is not yet rated but will probably be an r for some profanity , violence and sexuality and would be fine for teenagers . 
gil junger , the director of 10 things i hate about you , had an idea . he'd remake shakespeare's " the taming of the shrew " and cast it with teen actors . unfortunately that's only idea he seems to have had . even if karen mccullah lutz and kirsten smith's script , which is very loosely based on the play , has some funny moments , it's so knowingly cute that most of its jokes go nowhere . the director , who lets his actors drift without guidance , falls back on a series of hackneyed sight gags to pump up the laughs -- an out-of-control motorbike goes flying over a hill , an errant arrow hits the instructor in the rear and an oral sex gag tries to rival the hair gel joke from there's something about mary . the story is set at padua high -- you're laughing already , right ? in an interview sequence , the best response comes from one lad who laughs off the prospect of asking kat out . " maybe if we were the last two people on earth , and there were no sheep , " he laughs in response and then adds , " are there sheep ? " besides the film's cliched predictability , the major problem is the lack of convincing characters . one minute patrick is obnoxious , and the next he's sweet . one suspects that all of the film's leads are talented , but this movie makes it hard to be sure . there are some sparks here and there , but the film never really ignites . 10 things i hate about you runs 1 : 35 . it is rated pg-13 for profanity , explicit sexual humor and underage drinking and would be acceptable for teenagers . 
the problem with a story that relies almost exclusively on small talk is that they don't call it " small " talk for nothing . in robert altman's cookie's fortune , in which fishing is a favorite subject , a scrabble game gets significant screen time . you know the movie has problems when you find yourself more interested in the words on the board that the characters holding the tiles . the resulting confusion leaves you wondering why he can't restrain himself . one thing is certain ; altman can create atmospherics with the best of them . cookie's fortune is full of credible southern images , from the wide porches and ante-bellum homes to the sounds of the crickets and the banjos . with excruciating slowness , altman directs the script by anne rapp , which is so painfully obvious that you can guess all key events almost immediately . and when a young boy sees the key to the mystery , you can be sure that the adults will ignore him until just before the end of the movie . altman requires his viewers to endure half of the movie before the inevitable happens . you find yourself thinking that cookie should go ahead and shoot herself so the story can finally get in gear . the story's few tiny twists don't come until the end , but they involve a fairly uninteresting little subplot anyway . courtney b . vance is the no nonsense investigator . and lyle lovett is given a part that has little obvious purpose other than to give him a part in the movie . some humor ? la waiting for guffman would have been much-appreciated relief from the plot's tedium , but altman shies away from lampooning it as strongly as he should . the same could be said of the movie . it is rated pg-13 for adult themes , brief violence and some profanity and would be fine for kids around 12 and up . 
" i have absolutely no idea what i'm going to do with the rest of my life , " she confesses sadly over a lonely dinner with her husband . although this may sound serious , the out-of-towners , a remake of the 1970 neil simon screenplay , is a comedy , albeit not a particularly funny one . the kellermans are played without much chemistry by steve martin and goldie hawn , who deliver decidedly subpar performances . needless to say , their love life isn't . this is followed by a cliff's notes version of planes , trains & automobiles that lands them broke and luggageless in new york . as directed by sam weisman and written by marc lawrence , the movie is full of missteps and bad judgement . too often in a hurry , few of the jokes are set up properly . gwen , for example , plows into the fulton fish market with her car in the type of scene that you've seen a hundred times before , but it's edited so fast that you're never sure what is supposed to be funny about it . and when a starving george heads for the vending machine , you are so sure that it will jam that , when it does , the result is laugh free . the story does have a few genuinely humorous moments . steve martin does get to strut his stuff in an energetic sequence set in central park . did i mention john cleese's performance as the obsequious hotel manager , who is a secret cross-dresser ? he seems to have dropped in from another movie , which isn't much better than this one . if you've seen the trailers to the out-of-towners , you've already seen most of the best parts of the story . the rest is just lame padding . it is rated pg-13 for sexuality and drug references and would be fine for kids around 12 and up . 
although both women share a nicotine habit , zonca uses repetitious tight shots to dwell on isa's proclivity . i have yet to decode the precise significance of these mannerisms , but given the screen time devoted to them , they must contain important symbolism . the title is essentially a misnomer . sex with marie can be rather like a wrestling match . character-driven movies like this succeed based on how compelling the characters are , and neither of the leads here ever manage to draw us into the story . the director makes especially uninspired choices in the staging . the result is that , at the end , when the film finally tries to engage the audience , we've long since lost interest . this is the exactly the problem with the movie . it mopes around most of the time with not much to say . oh well , at least the two actresses do show promise even with such bland material . the film is in french with english subtitles . it is not rated but would probably be an r for sex , nudity and profanity . the movie would be fine for older teenagers . 
so what would cause 2 grown women and about 2 dozen grown men to faint ? lest you faint , let me tell you up-front that the same jackie chan plays them both . jackie chan films are endurable and enjoyable only because of the boyish charm and energetic bravado of chan himself . the scripts for his movies are usually so thin that , without jackie chan , it would be almost ridiculous to contemplate going to see them . twin dragons , originally released in 1992 , has just been re-released theatrically without allowing the film to be screened in advance to film critics . this is probably smart marketing since , among the jackie chan films , this one is probably one of the silliest and lamest . if you have not seen his movies before , you might be inclined to shake your head and walk out during the first 10 minutes of this one , as it's quite ludicrous . leaving would be a mistake , although going in the first place is still questionable . once you're there , stick around because jackie , especially in the film's grand finale , gets to perform one amazing martial arts feat after another . the whole movie is little more than a ruse for jackie to show us his martial arts skills in a comedic setting . in this broad parody , boomer fights not 1 , not 2 , not 3 but 20 men at a time and eventually wins just before he seems certain to be beaten completely to a pulp . although his later films are much better , this one does have its moments . the plot , such as it is , concerns the misadventures of mr . ma in hong kong as he is mistaken for boomer , and vice versa . when one sneezes , so does the other . the movie is way over-the-top slapstick , but for jackie's die-hard fans , no movie of his can be too hokey . for most of us , we'd be better off renting one of his later , more polished movies and passing on this re-release . it is rated pg-13 for comedic violence , sexual situations and profanity and would be fine for kids 10 or 11 and up . my son jeffrey , age 10 , found the film confusing , and , although he liked the martial arts , he gave the movie only * 1/2 . his friend steven , age 10 , thought there was a little too much fighting , but liked the comedy enough to give the movie * * 1/2 . his twin , john , thought the movie was really good and worth * * * 1/2 . their friend alan , almost 10 , thought the movie was awesome and was a * * * * motion picture . 
gillies mackinnon's handsomely shot hideous kinky contains enough lush visuals to serve as a moroccan travelogue , albeit one with a time warp . although the images are sometimes quite compelling , the threadbare story never is . billy mackinnon's thin script is based on a novel by esther freud . her life may have been exciting , but almost nothing happens in this movie . without much information , the viewers are left to piece together for themselves what the director is trying to say . this might lead us to believe that we are to feel compassion for a single parent coping with poverty , but the effects of being destitute are never made obvious . julia doesn't appear to be lacking much since her needs and desires are so modest . perhaps the movie is about the effects of bad parenting since julia does a better job of loving her children than caring for them . the characters are all written so superficially that one can never be sure what the filmmakers' intentions are . the film's title is completely misleading . there are no hideous , kinky sex scenes in the movie . a different title would have helped in marketing the film correctly , but perhaps the current one will prove more lucrative . after a reasonable amount of time has elapsed , the picture comes to a completely predictable conclusion . as we leave the theater , we remember the sights and sounds of marrakech . nothing more of the story lingers . none of the characters were interesting enough to care about when the movie was on . still , if you've been considering morocco for your next vacation , this might be just the movie for you . hideous kinky runs 1 : 38 . it is rated r for a little nudity , profanity , and sexuality and would be fine for teenagers . 
although ted demme's life makes you wait until the ending credits , it does eventually deliver on its promising casting . as shown in the outtakes , eddie murphy and martin lawrence can be quite funny together as they flub their lines and generally ham it up . they also show evidence of good chemistry together , something that the body of the movie has trouble demonstrating . how's this for a questionable concept for a movie ? a slice of life story about two prisoners in " for the long ride " -- life in prison . the uneventful script by robert ramsey and matthew stone contains little in the way of comedy or drama . and rather than pumping up this modest story , the director restrains his actors . the result is that the audience has to wait until the end for murphy and lawrence to show off their talent . most of the movie has respectable actors delivering reverential performances in a film that lacks much-needed oomph . thanks to set designer dan bishop ( lone star ) , the picture does provide some impressive atmospherics . the prison is not quite as bad a place as it sounds . and for all of the white overseer's bluster , he's frequently more friend than foe . still , there's no way out for prisoners #4316 ( murphy ) and #4317 ( lawrence ) , not that they don't try often enough . their failed attempts , which are never with enough humor , are the story's on-going joke . the movie does contain some nice sections . the story's most poignant scene comes when a convincingly aged lawrence looks for the first time in 30 years at a town full of people . ending first with a nicely ambiguous twist , the movie then feels compelled to spell everything out for us . after unleashing our imaginations , why does the film have to treat us like little kids who have to know all the answers ? do they think we would demand our money back if the film left some doubt as to the story's precise resolution ? it is rated r for some profanity , violence and mature themes and would be fine for teenagers . 
it's hard being a dedicated anarchist and punk rocker in very religious salt lake city . even if one abides by one's own rigid set of rules about creating a society without any , the chaos of a life dedicated to creating chaos can be challenging . punk ! is a parody of life on the punk side . most vocal , with his long and increasingly tiresome and repetitious monologues to the audience , is the blue-haired stevo . matthew lillard , an annoying actor with a propensity to overact , plays stevo . lillard , last seen in the disastrous wing commander , is admittedly a little better this time . punk ! are likeable , even if their lines are only sporadically funny . in a typical teenage plot , the school contains several stereotyped groups , including , but not limited to , the mods , the new wavers , the nazi skinheads , the poseurs and the punk rockers . the film's big joke is that , underneath , rebel stevo isn't a rebel after all . with an old hippie style van that has " antidisestablishmentarianism " on its side and profanities inscribed on its tires , the film just isn't as funny as it sounds . at least the picture never makes the classic mistake of taking itself seriously . it's an audacious parody from start to finish even if it suffers from a paucity of good laughs . it is rated r for drug use , profanity , violence and sex and would be fine for older teenagers . 
if you thought air traffic controllers wouldn't be promising subjects for a comedy , you'd be right , at least based on pushing tin . but forget the marketing , maybe the film was meant to be a drama , not a comedy . regardless of its intentions , the resulting movie , while not bad , is neither particularly funny nor dramatic . i've seen the movie and still have no idea what the director was trying to do . it almost seems as if the creative energies ended after the film's admittedly strong casting was completed . glen charles's script , based on an article by darcy frey , doesn't have many ideas other than one good sight gag , which is done twice , and involves a bit of ridiculous bravado . the story's twists are predicable , and one of the best scenes is set up only to be aborted just as it is starting to work . if real new york air traffic controllers are anything like the guys in this movie , you may want to rethink your upcoming trip to the big apple . they spend their time horsing around , acting like overgrown kids playing an increasingly boring video game . third seems to be about average . these guys burn out wives like tires at a racetrack . thrown in the plot for no extra charge and not much reason is some juicy marital infidelity . after the affair -- or is it affairs ? -- the already charged dynamics between nick and russell take on even stranger dimensions . if the characters were either more genuine or more humorous , this part might have proved interesting . as it is , the movie just lies there without much happening until the last act , which contains several endings . too bad only one of them is satisfactory , and it's not the last one . is there a market for a comedy that isn't particularly funny or a drama that doesn't have much impact ? only time will tell , but this movie doesn't have much going for it other than the marquee names . pushing tin runs too long at 2 : 04 . it is rated r for some profanity , nudity and sexuality and would be fine for teenagers . 
although it's been 30 years since the release of his cinematic masterpiece , romeo and juliet , franco zeffirelli's name on the screen can still cause flutters . whether it was anticipation or whether the crowd didn't realize who the director would be , the excitement in the theater was palpable . with a merchant ivory look , although it's not merchant ivory film , tea with mussolini never quite delivers on the promise of its look or the director's name . one assumes the adaptation is a loosely based and highly romanticized one . the black shirts strut around a lot and there are rumors of the ill treatment of jews , but this story gives it the pleasant gloss of a fairy tale . these fine actresses get to have a high old time as they chew up the scenery . the minimal story suffers from a lack of depth as it encompasses luca and his 5 caretakers . the characters are about as substantial as one of those tiny tea cakes that the ladies favor . ( a smoking incident at our screening , which caused a small mini-drama as the ushers did due diligence in trying to catch and evict the scofflaw , was much more exciting and interesting than the movie . nevertheless i am duty bound to set up the plot for you . ) at one of the obligatory , elegant teas , some fascists outside start breaking the expensive , cut-glass windows . although some of the incidents possess a certain cuteness , the movie was a laughfree experience for me . one rightfully expects more from a movie , especially if franco zeffirelli's name is on the marquee . tea with mussolini runs too long at 1 : 58 . it is rated pg for a few mature themes and would be fine for any kid old to be interested . be warned , however , that most kids -- and many adults -- may find the material produces the same effect as a large cup of warm chocolate . 
with an established pedigree in lavish costume drama from his respected restoration , hoffman might seem a natural to cook up something special for viewers . he combines some of hollywood's finest acting ingredients but comes up with little more than leftover hash . the opening credits explain that it was a time when the bustle was on the wane and the bicycle was on the rise , which were compatible trends . this humor is typical of the too-cute-to-be-funny level upon which the movie operates . when the actors , dressed in 19th century costumes , begin to speak the language of shakespeare , it grates on the nerves like watching john wayne with japanese dubbing . the sets are sumptuous , the cinematography handsome , and the operatic music stirring . so long as the actors aren't speaking , the movie is a feast for the eyes and ears , much like restoration . a midsummer night's dream should have you alternately laughing and grinning , but hoffman's version leaves one staring quizzically , never knowing quite what to make of it . with a killer cast and a great play , he manages to make the poetically beautiful surprisingly bland . many of the actors shine above the dullness of the direction . with bewitching twitching , she flits about the set with unbounded energy and infectious good spirits . neither give especially memorable performances , but looks count for a lot when you have to sit through such a sleep-inducing production . and if you've ever needed a reason to believe in fairies , pfeiffer , as a fairy , supplies a most convincing argument . kevin kline gets to chew up the scenery playing a bad actor named bottom . he makes an especially convincing ass during one of the fairy sequences . it is supposed to be laughably bad but is , instead , merely bad . stanley tucci , who seems to enjoy every movie he's in , has a playful , good time as puck . hoffman , who also wrote the screen adaptation , makes many strange staging choices ; none more so than having flockhart engage in mud wrestling . like so much of the movie , this scene is more weird than funny . given all of the other liberties hoffman takes with the play , it is a shame that he didn't shortened it more . this version quickly becomes tedious and frequently drags . if he had brought the picture in at an hour and a half , it could only have helped . this would be the perfect tagline for this production for it is indeed quite foolishly done . on the other hand , lame shakespeare is still shakespeare . it is rated pg-13 for lots of partial nudity usually covered up with strategically placed hair and flowers . the film would be fine for kids around 11 and up . 
in the love letter by hong kong comedy director peter chan , this premise is developed into a quirky romantic comedy . the script by maria maggenti , based on cathleen schine's novel , is peppered with cutesy dialog and slapstick situations . choosing not to emphasize the romantic angle , the film feels more like a pilot for a television sitcom than a movie . although it certainly has its moments , the one-joke story quickly wears thin . helen and george both wear old fashioned , black horn-rimmed glasses . passion easily overcomes their age gap . the letter will infect many others , but its effect will vary . the movie makes it too obvious who actually sent letter , although the details surrounding it aren't divulged until the end . most of the picture is a near miss . the romances are almost credible but not quite . the jokes ignite sometimes , with degeneres getting the best one , but mainly they just sputter . the movie tries to hard to be funny and not hard enough to be romantic , as if its title should have been the funny letter . the shame is that the movie has potential and , with a little different emphasis , could have been an unqualified success . " save me ! " and save us all from directors and screenwriters who can't create genuine characters , ones worth more than a few giggles . it is rated r for a little profanity , partial nudity and sexual situations and would be fine for teenagers . 
their closeness is never better felt than in this moment . based on the title , one might reasonably suspect that this promising story would take center stage in the movie , but it doesn't . instead it is relegated to the side . their stiff relationship is never convincing , and the two actors have no natural chemistry . skarsg ? rd's part is so underwritten that it's not clear why he accepted it . whenever the movie has the good sense to cut back to the conflict between father and son , it begins to develop momentum . most of the time however , it is bogged down in long , uninteresting scenes between parvez and bettina . the powerful and predictable ending confrontation shows how good the picture could have been . it is rated r for cocaine usage , nudity , sexual situations and profanity and would be acceptable for older teenagers . 
watching the red violin is rather like going to your mailbox and getting pretty picture postcards from your vacationing neighbors . as they fly all over the globe , they send you gorgeous pictures of the places they visit . these images may be evocative but hardly involving . you're glad that they're having a good time , but receiving their cards isn't the same as experiencing the joy of travel yourself . so it is with the red violin . with handsome cinematography and lush sets , the movie is a treat for the eyes . watching it is rather like admiring those postcards . the mind , however , is likely to become bored , as the vignettes , save the rewarding and fascinating one starring samuel l . jackson , are dull and unimaginative . although we have glimpses of jackson's story along the way , it doesn't take center stage until an hour and a half into the movie , which will test the resolve of less patient moviegoers . the plot is an intriguing one . the stories have a few nice moments . the heavily cliched characters are never on the stage long enough to develop any depth . the filmmakers spend so much energy getting the images and the plot structure just right that they shortchange the script . as the comrades spout trite propaganda ( " to every problem , there is a solution " ) , one is struck by how similar their lines are to the rest of the movie . the script also suffers from its absurd and labored plot devices , which are used for transitions . an interesting contrast can be made between the red violin and david mamet's the winslow boy . the former , although unrated , contains a few , generally ludicrous , scenes that would change the picture from a pg to a r . in one , a naked violin player is lying in bed fondling his violin for erotic pleasure . this is so off-the-wall that most audiences will laugh at its ridiculousness . trimming back on these few lurid scenes would improve the movie and make it more generally accessible . mamet brought his picture in at a g rating . he could have thrown in some expletives and flashed a little nudity for cheap thrills ; but he didn't , and his picture is better for it . only when the story drags -- and i do mean " drags " -- its way into the present does it finally come alive . the compelling ending segment has genuine tension and carefully crafted scripting . as morritz schemes , viewers will finally move to the edge of their seats . there isn't much surprise to the action , but jackson brings a warm and inviting humanity to his part that the rest of the movie lacks . the audience will probably figure out most or all of the mysteries behind the violin . what will prove more perplexing is why the writers couldn't have put more spark into the other parts of the film . as the ending credits roll , the audience is left with little more than a collection of nice postcards for their album . the red violin runs too long at 2 : 11 . it is not rated but would be an r for brief nudity , sex , profanity and drug usage . the film would be fine for older teenagers . 
the problem is that the group may be something akin to the hitler youth . sure , because you want him to think that you're a swell father . after all , you're not absolutely positive that your neighbor is a mass murderer about to strike again . and its implausible resolution is one of many that the audience has to swallow . better buy a large soda for this movie since you're going to be asked to swallow a lot . oh , did i mention that michael is not some na ? ve citizen but is an expert on terrorist activities ? actually , the movie's most serious flaws are the twists and surprise coincidences that don't seem too ridiculous until you think about them after the movie . it is a shame that writer ehren kruger felt compelled to make the plot so obvious . whenever he introduces any ambiguity , he feels obligated to resolve it in the next scene . as an outline , the movie works . and the devil in these details is way too easy to spot . although the script is full of holes and mark pellington's direction is too often lethargic , some superlative acting almost saves the picture . with a less obvious script and a subtler director , robbins's brilliant work could have made this picture shine . his proclivity to punctuate sentences with needless pauses can be frustrating , but , in his defense , perhaps it makes it more natural as well . she plays a character who laughs off plausible warnings for too long . you have to be pretty stupid to ignore the facts presented to her , and both davis and her character are just too intelligent to be believe that they would be that foolish . as oliver's wife , cheryl , joan cusack was cast , one would suppose , to give the deadly serious thriller a comedic touch . nothing she does is funny , leaving her seeming like a fish out of water . she manages to maintain the same fake , frozen smile throughout the entire movie . he claims that he was just playing with fireworks -- in the middle of march , no less . why don't writers give audiences credit for more intelligence ? why do they feel they have to telegraph every punch ? the movie does end with a dramatic and almost satisfying twist . but before you get too impressed , think about it for a minute . the ending manages to destroy not only the last part of the picture , it also makes suspect many of the seemingly more rational parts of the rest of the movie . check your brains at the door . keep your eyes on tim robbins . and maybe you'll be able to overlook the film's flaws . robbins gives the picture more than it deserves . his performance almost makes the movie worth recommending . it is rated r for violence and some profanity and would be acceptable for teenagers . 
illuminata , directed by john turturro , would appear to have it all : lavish sets , intimate cinematography , nostalgic atmosphere , captivating music and a large and accomplished cast . and yet ? with acting talent that includes john turturro , katherine borowitz , christopher walken , susan sarandon , beverly d'angelo , bill irwin , rufus sewell , georgina cates , matthew sussman and ben gazzara , how could it go wrong ? the result is some cute bits that fly by , leaving a laugh here and a memorable line there , but never adding up to anything . the picture simply never comes close to jelling . the movie's script by brandon cole and john turturro relies heavily on sight gags for the slapstick comedy . like the rest of the movie , these scenes form little more than curiosity pieces . the best humor comes from the way the movie pokes fun at the flamboyant theater critic , bevalaqua ( walken ) . people don't know whether they really like a play until they've read his opinion . " that's what critics are for , to tell us . " " that's because he makes mistakes , " bevalaqua points out . like the woman's license plate that reads , " so many men , so little time , " the movie parades a host of characters in front of us . but it never takes the time to develop any of them . although the movie has its faults , turturro's love of the theater is palpably shown . too bad he couldn't have slowed down some and thought more about the needs of his audience . eliminating many of the characters and fleshing out the ones left would have been a start . it is rated r for sex , nudity and language and would be fine for older teenagers . 
sitting through eric rohmer's autumn tale ( conte d'automne ) is rather like being trapped at a small dinner party with a half-dozen , loquacious strangers . the people seated around you are nice enough , but nothing they have to say holds much genuine interest for you . " it'd be monstrous ! " this is further complicated by the fact that etienne still likes rosine . as an outline , the story has promise . the script , however , gives the characters lots to say but very little of interest . one long sequence , for example , involves a discussion of weeds . the director , who has done much better work ( rendezvous in paris being a recent favorite ) , keeps his actors here on a short leash . the acting stays within such narrow emotive ranges that the picture will likely put many to sleep . autumn tale isn't a bad movie , but one that has little to recommend it . autumn tale runs a long 1 : 52 . the film is in french with english subtitles . it is rated pg for mild thematic elements . it would be fine for any age but would probably not interest kids less than 13 . 
supposedly based on a true story , michael rymer's in too deep tells a conventional and predictable undercover story that requires frequent suspension of disbelief . normally , once your cover is blown , you give up the undercover life . not in this story . and -- surprise ! -- this mistake will come back to haunt him . as in the recent , abysmal deep blue sea , the best thing about the movie is ll cool j , who gives humanity and a chilling reality to a role that frequently is reduced to caricature . the dialog can be unintelligible at times , and there are only a few sympathetic characters in the story , yet the movie somehow manages to rise slightly above the hackneyed storyline . still , there's little to recommend the movie . you've seen this story before . and better . in too deep runs too long at 1 : 44 . it is rated r for strong , pervasive violence , drug usage , sex and language and would be acceptable for teenagers only if they are older and mature . 
do you remember back in grade school when one of the kids on the playground would say some mildly off-color phrase , and you and your buddies would erupt into nervous giggles ? one in which the insults know no bounds . mothers are universally referred to with the b-word , and teachers are cussed out to the delight of the entire class . there are undoubtedly people who find this brand of humor extremely funny rather than merely crude . my audience was a mixture of laughers and starers . the story concerns four boys who see an r-rated animated movie , asses of fire . after watching the movie , one kid joins the klan , but most just switch to a new profanity-laced dialect of the english language . " the animation is all crappy , " one of the boys complains in a bit of self-deprecating humor . the pictures have such little life that they are effectively a series of slightly moving tableaux . some bits of humor start off well enough before they go off the deep end . but the kid doesn't obtain admission . punching the entry button to the pearly gates produces an " access denied " error message . some of the political humor is quite funny , the best being a v-chip that is implanted into one kid's skull . every bad word produces a painful jolt . and what do you say when you experience sudden pain ? you cuss , of course , which only prolongs the agony . speaking of prolonging things , the movie would have worked much better as a short film . a quarter of an hour would have been plenty of time with these tart-tongued tiny tots . it is rated r for pervasive vulgar language and crude sexual humor and for some violent images . it would be fine for teenagers . do not make the mistake of taking kids under 13 . a woman in my audience did , and you could see her grimacing . 
these are some of the stock horror movie questions that writer and director kevin williamson , the writer of the scream series , poses in the black comedy killing mrs . tingle . oops , i mean teaching mrs . tingle . tamed down to the pg-13 level , the predictable movie pulls its punches whenever possible . just when a horrible deed is about to be done , for example , the perpetrators observe the intended victim's spouse reading the bible . managing to shine in the mediocre movie , helen mirren ( " prime suspect " ) , as mrs . tingle , delivers one of those hard-edged performances that she can do so well . the movie needs better-matched opponents as well as sharper writing and less obvious directing . " my poor dear , i hope you're a good waitress " is all she responds . " bored , bored , bored , i can't believe you don't have tv , " jo lynn complains while holding mrs . tingle hostage . " it's like not having toilet paper . " tingle contain any surprises ? maybe one . there , i've done it . i just told you the only unexpected thing in the entire movie . now , you have no reason at all to see it . enjoy the time i just saved you . it is rated pg-13 for thematic content , violence , sexuality , language and some teen drinking and would be acceptable for teenagers . 
lying in his underwear on the roof of his house while the rain pours down is typical of the episodes in first-time writer and director tod williams's the adventures of sebastian cole . " sorry , i thought you were someone else , " she apologizes before vanishing into the dark . once he guzzles one and a half fifths of whiskey in order to see how it feels to be seriously drunk . this sensitivity , he fears , will dull sebastian's creative writing edge . " i don't understand how such a vain boy could spend so much time making himself unattractive , " she complains about his slightly streaked hair . actually , the quiet and pensive sebastian is anything but vain . he doesn't seem to care much about anything , least of all his appearance , even if he is strikingly handsome . his life is a blur , much like the movie . the small film is filled with tiny , frequently unrelated incidents that never amount to anything . the filmmaker shows no talent at storytelling , leaving the movie to live or die on the basis of the characters it creates . it is rated r for language , crude sexual references and some substance abuse and would be acceptable for teenagers . 
among the hardest of movies to review are kids' movies like a dog of flanders , which is being made for the fourth time . it's hard to criticize a handsomely shot film full of good moral values even if the cliched story never ventures outside of its predictable parameters . its one " surprise " is so obvious that one wonders why they even bother . before even the opening credits roll , the audience witnesses a mother trudging through heavy , blowing snow . with a screenplay by robert singer and the director kevin brodie , a dog of flanders has the look and feel of a television movie , not surprising since almost all of their experience is in television . the excessively earnest tale features a host of dour characters . the story , which takes itself too seriously , needs to lighten up some . as delivered , the movie will have its intended audience of kids aged 4 to 12 , fidgeting and squirming in their seats , which is a shame since the values it tries to teach are so important . not a lot happens and when it does the director substantially mutes its effect . and the editor trims the scenes down to a certain homogenized blandness . you keep feeling that there's a much better story trying hard to get out . although you might think that any movie with a dog in the title would feature , well , a dog , the frisky patrasche doesn't get anywhere near the screen time that he deserves . moreover , he earns a warning in the ending credits as the filmmakers feel compelled to admonish kids that dogs of patrasche's breed , officially known as bouvier des flanders , may not make a suitable pet . what's next ? will credits start warning kids that the villains in the movies may not make appropriate friends ? the script hews carefully to a strict moral code with trite little aphorisms at every turn . one of the story's few evil characters is a landlord who likes to be paid in full . " patience is a virtue i do not possess , " he explains . perhaps audience members attending their first motion picture or those too young for school will not be able to solve this puzzle . the production's problems are many . two of the movie's key scenes happen as large laundry flakes are blown all over what is clearly an indoor set . needless to say , these stick to bodies but never melt . think he'll be allowed to submit it after all ? gosh you're smart . but so would nello be . there is no way that he wouldn't be on time for the most important thing in his life . one is tempted on such a promising but cliched movie to reduce it to a one-phrase review . the one for this picture would be : needs more dog . a dog of flanders runs about an hour and a half . it is rated pg for one scene of mild violence , mild language and thematic elements . it would be fine for kids 6 and up , but younger ones might be scared by frequent images of death and dying . my son jeffrey , age 10 , thought the movie was only " okay , " and gave it just * * . he liked the characters but thought they didn't have much to do . 
this tired formula is the essence of many studios' conservative approach to filmmaking . the predictably bland results may not excite audiences , but the risk of financial failure is greatly diminished . if enough people like the star and know the story , they will come , no matter how lame the production and how mediocre the reviews . thus it is with universal's dudley do-right , a live-action adaptation of the old kids' television cartoon . starring brendan fraser as dudley do-right , a royal canadian mountie who is one of the world's stupidest cops , the movie proves that some cartoons are hard to adapt to live-action . the grown-ups in dudley do-right just end up looking embarrassingly silly and are only sporadically funny . the slapstick humor is heavy on falling-down jokes . writer and director hugh wilson believes that , if having dudley fall out of his chair once can generate a few laughs , just have him do it again . alfred molina in a by-the-numbers performance plays snidely whiplash , an arch villain and dudley's long-time nemesis . although fraser has some nice moments , the only consistently enjoyable performance is that by corey burton who does the off-screen voice of the announcer . even so , his lines would work much better were the movie animated . among the few enjoyable parts of the movie is an indian dance extravaganza that looks like a river dance sequence as choreographed by busby berkeley . the movie takes a similarly simplistic approach . after the movie is over , horse's head appears through the screen as he sticks out his tongue to give it raspberries . my sentiments exactly . dudley do-right runs just 1 : 15 . it is rated pg for mild comic action violence and for brief language and innuendo . it would be fine for most kids . my son jeffrey , age 10 , who gave the move * * 1/2 , said , " even though i didn't laugh , i thought it was kind of funny . " 
" it's much worse . the movie was filmed entirely at night because , according to the press notes , the director feels that " night has fallen on my country . " the relentlessly depressing story is well acted but hard to watch . the only sympathetic character is a puppy that appears briefly . although they share a nervous laughter , the tragic result is anything but funny . " for you it's funny , " the transvestite performer in the nightclub cabaret balkan tells the audience . " for me it's horrible , kids . " certainly living in a city in which the inhabitants pulverize each other with little compassion would be hard . looking for a depressing film in an obscure foreign language , filled with anger and random acts of senseless violence ? cabaret balkan is it . although this is just the high-minded sort of film that critics tend to love , most moviegoers will avoid this movie like the plague . and if they do go , they will probably find it long and tedious . as tragic as the situation is in the former yugoslavia , cabaret balkan provides few fresh insights and little compelling reason to see the movie . the movie is in serbo-croatian with english subtitles . it would be acceptable for teenagers only if they are older and mature . 
plunkett & macleane , a lavish costume drama set in london in 1748 , has it all : huge , powdered wigs , men with lipstick , rock music , fast edits , squalor and decadence . in short it's the perfect movie for those people who think the main problem with the cinema today is that it lacks an mtv video gloss . first-time film director jake scott has an extensive resume of -- surprise ! -- rock videos . plunkett & macleane is a hyperactive movie that is a treat for the eyes but offers little for the mind . billed as a comedy , it doesn't contain a single funny scene with the possible exception of a remark about halitosis . when someone uses bad breath as an insult and that elicits a film's only laugh , you know the movie is in trouble . did i mention the crazy costumes ? this life of crime has predictable twists and turns , right down to the ending , which is lifted out of a hundred similar movies . liv tyler , as the story's love interest , lady rebecca , continues in her tradition of delivering lifeless performances to characters that are already badly underwritten . the best supporting character is played by alan cumming , as lord rochester , a bisexual dandy who sports the show's most outlandish wardrobes , with his large purple hat and accompanying crimson and lavender jacket being perhaps the most wonderfully silly . visually attractive like velvet goldmine , the movie suffers the same problem . it's a good-looking picture , but it's never more than just a good-looking picture . the characters are poorly drawn , the script is doa and the director only knows how to create flash . boiled down to its three-minute rock video essence , it might prove diverting . at a full-movie length , it tests the viewer's stamina . plunkett & macleane runs 1 : 33 . it is rated r for some strong violence , sexuality and language and would be acceptable for older teenagers . 
gosh , wasn't the holocaust a hoot ? welcome back to a revisionist yesteryear at the movies as , once again , we see how funny those old nazis were . the idea of turning one of the most horrific tragedies of mankind into a comedy is an idea that has , at best , a highly limited appeal . life is beautiful , it would be argued by most although this reviewer still has some reservations , carried off making jewish concentration camps funny . jakob the liar , robin williams's recent piece of schmaltz , was an unqualified disaster using a similar theme . it is neither as spectacularly pretty as the former nor as spectacularly awful as the latter . humor comes in the form of people who faint from fright and other slapstick retreads . sometimes , although rarely , the laughter comes from the dialog . we learn , for example , that all one need do to speak proper german is talk yiddish but leave off the fun parts . as the story turns more serious in the second half , it is more successful . the only completely satisfying scenes in the picture , however , are the aerial shots from on high as the train cuts across lush fields of grain , accompanied by sweeping orchestral music . like chauncy gardner ( peter sellers ) in being there , the fool utters the most profound statements for the others to ponder . thinking about conundrums like these will help pass the time during the movie's many slow spots . it is rated r for some sexuality and nudity , including full frontal nudity of girls and women . the film would be fine for teenagers . 
for those who feel that movies should be more like tv , superstar , the latest movie by director bruce mcculloch ( his last was the abysmal dog park ) , is a movie-length version of a " saturday night live " skit . what this means exactly remains somewhat of mystery , but it has a sexual connotation . the sexually charged film pushes the envelope of its pg-13 rating as in such scenes as the one in which mary pushes up her breasts and has them talk to each other . it also skirts the rating by showing lots and lots of panties and some bras , but no actual nudity . relying on slapstick for most of its humor , a typical scene occurs in a confessional . " my feelings would best be expressed in a monologue from . . . . launching off into yet another imitation of a movie scene , she gets so much into character that she gathers the attention of all of the other students in the church with her loud voice . the conclusion of this comedic episode has her knocking down the confessional door due to her acting exuberance . as her tongue went deep into the tree , our audience went wild . steve koren's script puts mary in special ed so that he can include lots of jokes aimed at " retards . " am i the only one who doesn't find the word " retard " funny ? lest you think they missed ridiculing everyone , don't worry . for all of its silliness , its crudeness and its cheap shots , the movie does have a few nice moments . eventually , as it throws every joke it can think of at you in the hope that you'll like something , it almost wins you over . still , a 5-minute comedy sketch of the same material would be preferable . it is rated pg-13 for sex-related humor and language and would not be appropriate for kids under 13 . 
writers and directors figure that the more the adults scream obscenities at the kids , the more the films will gain the sympathy of the audience . if the kids do their own share of cussing , then even better because it will reflect on the kids' upbringing . the movie has an underdeveloped script that feels like an uncompleted outline . not much happens in this coming-of-age story , save one incident . the opening section , shot comically with wide-angle lenses , is so unbelievable that it made me think that the movie was going to be a parody , not the grippingly realistic drama that it was billed to be . he's also a thief , but the story treats this so inconsequentially that you almost don't notice . joe is an abused kid so we are supposed to be sympathetic , not critical . the movie's central characters are all miscast . the two boys playing his sons have the good looks and perfect skin of photographic models . " there are good people , joe , and then there are guys like me , " his father says in perhaps his only cogent thought in the story . for all the movie's problems , one can't help but feel sorry for joe . too bad his story was just sketched for us . with a different cast and a more finished script , we could have gotten to know him . it is rated r for language and abusive situations and would be acceptable for teenagers . 
in lukas moodysson's show me love , it's agnes ahlberg's sixteenth birthday , and she's so depressed and despondent that she's about ready to slit her wrist , literally . with a total lack of manners and civility , agnes ridicules the girl's handicap . the strength of the production is the touchingly delicate performance by rebecca liljeberg as agnes . with convincing realism , she steals the show . too bad the thin script by the director gives her so little of substance to do . during most of the movie the characters engage in little more than small talk , a kiss of death for a subtitled film . the teenagers engage in the same sort of activities popular in bigger budget hollywood productions . the pungent smell of peer pressure is constantly in the air like the aroma of leftover garbage . the picture is shot in a grainy , oversaturated , ugly style that makes looking at it relatively unpleasant , even when rebecca liljeberg's acting is in high gear . why filmmakers think that to be artistic they have to make movies that look worse than the average moviegoer's home videos , i have no idea . sure , some accomplished directors can do this to advantage , but for most it is a mistake . rebecca liljeberg gives a realistic and impressive performance , but an interesting one ? not really . i'm tired of teens talking about make-up and making out . a lesbian twist to an otherwise standard story just isn't enough to make it compelling . show me love runs 1 : 29 . the film is in swedish with english subtitles . it is not rated but would be r for nudity , sexual discussions , language and underage alcohol abuse . the film would be acceptable for older teenagers . 
when a director like wes craven , who has built his career on horror flicks , wants to find something different for a change of pace , what does he pick ? you might expect an edgy movie , full of surprises . if you do , you'd be wrong . music of the heart is mr . even if the subject it chronicles is worthy , the film about it is so hopelessly saccharine that watching it may induce sugar overload . the schmaltzy script that streep has to work from is beneath her , but , like the trooper she is , she gives it her all . the well disciplined children have such nice manners that you'll find it hard to believe that they live in a ghetto . the scenes are set up for maximum emotional effect . impact made . surprisingly , half of the movie concerns not the music program but roberta's family and social life . they even bet on whether her first date will kiss her or not . the film's saving grace is a rousing , star-studded ending that is the musical equivalent of the big game . it is completely satisfying even if the level of the kids' playing isn't quite believable . the satisfying conclusion does not , however , make up for the all the time waiting for it . music of the heart runs too long at 2 : 04 . it is rated pg for language and would be fine for kids of any age , but those younger than teenagers are likely to be bored . 
like a pleasant-enough pilot for a new television series , the good-spirited movie goes down easily , albeit not memorably . the exceedingly attractive actors and actresses have well-endowed bodies and play successful upper middle class professionals . most scenes find them grinning from ear to ear , as they clearly enjoy their roles . although it may be authentic , the racial and sexist language may make some viewers feel uncomfortable . most of the movie has a light , breezy feel like its dreamy jazz music . in a movie that goes on a half-hour too long for a romantic comedy , these are among the scenes that are badly in need of trimming . eventually , harper's book introduces complications in the friends' camaraderie . by the end , the comedy turns serious as the wedding itself is put in jeopardy by certain revelations . the movie contains few missteps , but the director never manages to make the material compelling . i'm an extremely emotional sort when it comes to weddings , and i cry at the weddings of people whom i barely know . but at the big wedding finale in this picture , it was the cast crying , not me . it is rated r for language , sex , brief nudity and mild violence and would be acceptable for teenagers . 
directed by kitano without any of dirty harry's comedic flourishes and without the character depth of kitano's more successful fireworks , the movie does start promisingly . in his mind the world is easily dichotomized into the victims and the punks -- his favorite expression being " damned punk . " violent cop , which has almost no music and little ambient noise , possesses a serenity that is periodically punctured by random acts of increasingly horrific violence . kitano's acting is always intriguing , but the thin story has trouble holding the viewer's interest . starting off as a character study , the picture quickly degrades into just a collection of stylized acts of violence . the intensity of kitano's acting and directing has to be respected even if they become increasingly difficult to admire as the story grinds on . the english translation of the dialog sometimes becomes laughably sparse . coach me . " the minimal plot involves drugs , but the plot is just a ruse . the whole point of the picture is to let azuma demonstrate his sadomasochistic behaviors . and so is the movie -- violently crazy . the film is in japanese with english subtitles . it is not rated but would be an r for strong violence , drug use and sex . the film would be acceptable for teenagers only if they are older and mature . 
directed by kitano without any of dirty harry's comedic flourishes and without the character depth of kitano's more successful fireworks , the movie does start promisingly . in his mind the world is easily dichotomized into the victims and the punks -- his favorite expression being " damned punk . " violent cop , which has almost no music and little ambient noise , possesses a serenity that is periodically punctured by random acts of increasingly horrific violence . kitano's acting is always intriguing , but the thin story has trouble holding the viewer's interest . starting off as a character study , the picture quickly degrades into just a collection of stylized acts of violence . the intensity of kitano's acting and directing has to be respected even if they become increasingly difficult to admire as the story grinds on . the english translation of the dialog sometimes becomes laughably sparse . coach me . " the minimal plot involves drugs , but the plot is just a ruse . the whole point of the picture is to let azuma demonstrate his sadomasochistic behaviors . and so is the movie -- violently crazy . the film is in japanese with english subtitles . it is not rated but would be an r for strong violence , drug use and sex . the film would be acceptable for teenagers only if they are older and mature . 
it's the 1930s -- the time of the great depression . this might lead one to believe that the film is a hard-hitting indictment of politics run amuck , but it isn't . everything is rushed . robbins then quickly cuts to an entirely different group of actors telling another part of the story . among the many stereotyped characters in the cluttered script are : a giddy liberal socialite , countess lagrange ( vanessa redgrave ) , who gets her strike news delivered on a silver platter by her servants . none of the characters are compelling , and , if the movie had aired on television , i'm sure i would have turned it off long before it was over . very much in the spirit of illuminata , which opened this past summer , the fast-paced cradle will rock takes a comedic backstage look at the production of a play . and like illuminata , although it has its moments , it never comes together in anything approaching a satisfying whole . i would be inclined to suggest that you just wait for the video and use the fast forward to get to the good parts , but this would require you to fast forward through almost the entire picture , making it not worth the cost . it is rated r for language , nudity and sex and would be acceptable for teenagers . 
but like a tv movie featuring john-boy walton , the film's slow pacing and sappy storyline is sleep inducing . the acting is close to being inert , and each of the excessively large number of characters is drastically underwritten . at least the messages , which the film provides in abundance , are good ones . still , as we are poignantly reminded , the occupants would much rather be adopted . in this predictable plot , as soon as you know that the young man can perform abortions , even though he is against them , you know what a major scene later will undoubtedly be . keep those gorgeous visuals in your mind . enjoying them almost makes up for the lameness of the script . it is rated pg-13 for mature thematic elements , sexuality , nudity , substance abuse and some violence and would be fine for teenagers . 
( actually , for all we know , the sink may be there but dressed up as something else . ) it gets even more complicated and convoluted . one's enjoyment of the story depends on whether all of this quirkiness is enough to sustain your interests . after a while , i just got tired of all of the overly cute twists and turns in the plot . some of the acting is good , but that's about it . the film is in spanish with english subtitles . it is rated r for sexuality including strong sexual dialogue , language and some drug content and would be acceptable for older teenagers . 
probably intended partially as a comedy and partially as an indictment of the sport of boxing , the movie isn't much of either because of its badly underwritten script . " somebody tell me why a christian is getting laid , and a heathen like me isn't , " is typical of its would-be funny lines . wild sex with strangers does not require any such remorse . at least the guy next to me thought that they were hilarious . not able to comprehend spanish , i can only comment on his english lines , which were singularly uninteresting . caesar , we find , was once a homosexual for precisely a year , but he is vociferously not gay . this plot device allows vince to ridicule him through most of the movie . you might think that these down-on-their-luck guys would catch the first plane to vegas , but you'd be wrong . lolita davidovich , an actress who has given few , if any , memorable performances in her career , plays their ex , grace pasic . davidovich does provide the film's most impressive visual when she dons a shear , bright red dress that barely covers her body . the completely predicable conclusion seems like it will never end . play it to the bone runs 2 : 00 . it is rated r for brutal ring violence , strong sexuality including dialogue , nudity , pervasive language and some drug content . the film would be acceptable for older teenagers . 
absolutely infuriating . in any given sunday , oliver stone assembles a large , stellar cast and then undermines their performances with his directorial grandstanding . the camera is brought in so tight that we usually have little clue as to what is happening . stone uses hyper-fast pans and microsecond editing to dazzle us with his artistic skills , all to the detriment of his own story . on the field and off , the movie is an uninviting mess . telling a tale of exploited millionaire football players , the movie doesn't have many subtle moments . the extremely simple story has two other subplots . the owner doesn't care anything about the game . after hundreds of blocks and tackles , choreographed to loud explosions , the movie finally comes to the ending at -- surprise ! -- the big game . think they'll win ? the movie contains a single small twist , but you have to wait for the closing credits to see it , so if you haven't walked out from disgust or boredom before then , do stay through the credits . the big surprise is why this skeletal story takes almost 2 and 3/4 hours to tell . if ever a film should have been brought in at an hour and a half , it is this one . any given sunday runs 2 : 40 . 
exhilaration please , not exhaustion . full of self-importance , directors this christmas season have lost all sense of proportion . movies seem to take an eternity for no discernable reason . in his non-musical anna and the king , rather than giving us something for our minds and our hearts , andy tennant gives us butt-numbing length as we watch what is admittedly an absolutely gorgeous picture . the cinematography ( caleb deschanel ) , the sets ( ian whittaker and luciana arrighi ) , the costumes ( jenny beavan ) and the music ( george fenton ) are all absolutely dazzling . but with steve meerson and peter krikes's pedestrian script , there is little to engage us . the net result of such beauty , scored to lush orchestral music , is to literally put us to sleep as it did several men , women and children in my packed audience . the fault does not lie with the actors . the chemistry between them is never quite believable , but it really isn't their fault . the written material they have to work with is awkward , and tennant's direction is languid . in a key scene , for example , in which blowing up a bridge quickly is the key to survival , tennant has his actors move with a glacial pace . we get the point that the siamese in the picture do not speak proper english , and their butchered english syntax and semantics can be funny . but , after a while , this repetitive joke gets quite tiresome . so would songs have been an improvement ? you bet ! visuals are important , but they aren't enough to carry a picture . anna and the king needs something to make it compelling , and a few songs certainly wouldn't hurt . a large part of the film is in thai with english subtitles . it is rated pg-13 for some intense violent sequences . given the explicitness of the bloody caning and some of the other scenes , the film might have been more appropriately rated r . it would be acceptable for teenagers . 
beautiful , baffling and boring . long episodes of palace intrigue are enacted so slowly that you'll swear the projectionist must be running the print at half speed . periodically , we get a breath of fresh air , as the picture moves outdoors for a few fast , battle sequences . the characters , whose motivations remain largely an enigma , strut around , periodically breaking into laughter in strange bits of bravado . he -- surprise ! -- isn't such a nice guy . the audience has to endure this and other acts of horrific violence . the script by the director and peigong wang uses chapter headings to delineate the various parts of the narrative , but the opaque story makes for one long , confusing history lesson . fei zhao's lush cinematography and jiping zhao's sweeping music are so striking that you'll wish that they'd been saved for a more compelling motion picture . their presence in this film is actually counterproductive , as the tendency to fall asleep during the long , dull passages are only accentuated by the dreamy music and the gorgeous visuals . the obviously ambitious film really has very little to say . this brings me to my rule for directors . if you have little to say , don't take forever saying it . instead of taking almost three hours of the audience's time , trim your film back to the standard length of one and half to two hours . your picture will be more focused so that your audiences are more likely to appreciate it , and , if they don't , they won't get mad at you for wasting so much of their time with a film that's badly in need of more editing and better pacing . it is in mandarin with english subtitles . the film is rated r for language and strong violence and would be acceptable for older teenagers . 
don't ask . yes , in the third miracle it's time again to lambaste and lampoon one of hollywood's favorites , the catholic church . what director agnieszka holland ( washington square ) gives us in the place of plausibility are lots of atmospherics . their loud rumble and their dominant size must have some important symbolism . what that meaning might be is less clear . the same goes for the film's wonderful , eclectic score . it doesn't go with the movie , but it's treat to listen to . this subplot is stuck into the story clearly just for the titillation factor . if you need to know precisely what saints do once they go to heaven , the pedantic movie explains this and other mysteries . " do you believe all of this ? " the movie is like that interchange about belief . masquerading as a religious picture -- the press kit talks more about saints than about the movie -- the film doesn't deliver . a movie can poke fun at religion and still seriously consider issues of faith , see dogma for example . the third miracle , on the other hand , plays as a cheap mockery of serious faith . there are few members of the clergy in it that are credible . when first confronted with the possibility that an american might be proposed for sainthood , european archbishop wener puts down such a ludicrous notion with xenophobic reasoning . disbelief is what this movie is all about . one thing can be said for it , even if the picture is balderdash , it is quite well-acted balderdash . harris , in particular , pours his heart and soul into a role that's lacking in both . the third miracle runs 2 : 00 . it would be acceptable for most teenagers . 
freddie prinze jr . and julia stiles , the movie's likable stars , manage to be mildly interesting in a film that almost never is . the story has some intriguing story elements , but the director seems lost about what to do with them . and robert yeoman's bland and uninviting cinematography doesn't provide much support to a movie that could use some help . their initial exchange , with its excessively cute dialog , doesn't bode well for the rest of the story . when she gets -- quite unconvincingly -- tipsy , she blames it on her boozing style . the movie's only effective moments are the frequent asides that the leads give to the camera . in these they seem to be honestly talking about love , in contrast to their lack of much genuine chemistry when they're together . stiles tries hard , but the obvious conclusion is that she's better cast when she's nasty , as she was in 10 things i hate about you , than when she's nice , as she is here . much of the show concerns the many minor characters . when the movie can't keep the romance angle going , it falls back on teen movie clich ? s . it is rated pg-13 for sexual situations and profanity and would be acceptable for kids 12 and up . 
esperanza , played with a resourceful but gentle spirit by dolores heredia , would probably have accepted the doctor's explanation if her oven hadn't been dirty . the whimsical picture shows us colorful whorehouses decorated with kitsch . the imaginative happenings cannot make up for the lack of a compelling story . the eclectic show ends without a satisfactory resolution . the actors are pleasant enough , but the imminently forgettable tale doesn't have much to recommend it . the film is in spanish with english subtitles . it is rated r for sexual content and language and would be acceptable for most teenagers . 
a coke can as soccer ball ? writer/director khyentse norbu's the cup is an innocent little picture that suffers from being a one-idea movie . if the characters in it were not monks , then the only reaction would be to write off the formulaic picture as a lame and amateurish version of the kids' big game movie that has been done hundreds of times before and usually much better . whether the mere fact that the cast is composed of monks can supply enough charm to make you ignore all of its shortcomings , only you can judge . for myself , the charm quickly wore thin . sounding harmless enough , he gives permission for the event . ending in the traditional big game , this time a televised one , the predictable movie has few surprises . as soon as you see their rag-tag electronics setup , you know they'll have trouble with it . and given the feel-good tone of the story , you can be sure that it will be resolved successfully . the film is in tibetan and hindi with english subtitles . it is rated g and would be suitable for all ages . 
the bizarre image of him in drag may be worth the price of admission for some filmgoers . others may demand a bit more for their entertainment dollar . this latter group will probably feel cheated by holy smoke , a mess of a movie by jane campion ( the piano ) . part quirky australian comedy and part film about cult deprogramming , the script by anna and jane campion is neither funny nor credible . this infuriatingly short time for religious conversion and rejection is made even less believable by winslet's flighty and flimsy acting . only in her erotic scenes is she ever the least bit convincing . to be fair , though , she is forced to say some pretty ridiculous lines . ( " what do you think of me ? " " do you like my personality or my breasts best ? " but , asked to give an intellectual performance devoid of much emotional impact , he's embarrassingly miscast . still , keitel is such a good actor than he manages to make the part more interesting than it has any right to be . the movie is filled with an array of eccentric characters . none of these subplots have much to do with the story . campion treats the movie like a mixed salad , throwing in every ingredient in her kitchen in the hopes of spicing it up . rather than enhancing , the result is sensory overload . nothing seems to blend even if some of the parts are mildly tasty . although the movie starts off seriously , it slowly dissolves into pure kitsch . and after a semi-satisfactory ending , an unnecessary epilogue is tacked on that blunts the show's modest impact , making an already unsatisfactory film even more so . it is rated r for strong sexuality and language and would be acceptable for high school students . 
could it be that he's been chain-smoking pot the whole time ? curtis hanson's wonder boys , scripted by steven kloves and based on michael chabon's novel , is an eclectic collection of quirky characters and incidents that never amount to anything . unlike rushmore , wonder boys forgets to be funny . with a worn face like a well-read novel and with a tendency to pass out , grady doesn't exactly seem the type that would attract a series of women , but he does . the story heaps on strange little episodes and quirky characters like planting masses of seeds in the garden with the hopes that some of them will germinate , but few do . one scene has a character flipping the dial on the television . sadly , you realize that what's on the tube is more interesting that the movie itself . the predictable story has old-fashioned writers who eschew computers , preferring typewriters instead . grady doesn't make any copies of his tome . any guess what will happen in one of the scenes ? the movie spends the whole time setting up the plot . when the ending credits roll , you realize that it was never able to get in gear . i must confess that i have a personal hang-up about comedies . if they aren't funny , i have trouble liking them , no matter how well cast they are . and there aren't many laughs in the rambling wonder boys , or any characters worth caring about . it is rated r for language and drug content and would be acceptable for older teenagers . 
that's pretty fresh , right ? add to that lots of slapstick with guys running into doors and letting off gas , and you can see the creative juices flowing like molasses going upstream . mitchell kapner's script , of course , has been done many times before and usually much better ( analyze this and goodfellas being just two examples ) . while the whole nine yards is frequently cute , it's rarely more than that . the infrequent laughs are forced , and the movie feels as stale as a month-old focaccia . perry's numerous physical comedy routines are more embarrassing than funny . the humor is so droll that it usually isn't funny at all . " it's not important how many people i've killed , " jimmy tells oz . " it's how i get along with those still alive . " the film's only real enjoyment comes from two members of the supporting cast . when duncan comes on the screen , he has so much charisma that you want to stop the movie and hug him right then and there . jill is a toothy brunette with enthusiasm to burn . movie goers -- both of them -- who've never seen a mafioso comedy will probably find this picture funny . everyone else will leave wishing that they had stayed at home and rented something like goodfellas instead . it is rated r for some violence , nudity , sexual situations and language and would be acceptable for most teenagers . 
the blarney's back in aileen ritchie's irish comedy , the closer you get . actually , neither the men nor the women of the village look exactly like prizes . needless to say -- you guessed it -- they don't show up . as one of the parishioners points out to him , he has performed lots of funerals but not a single marriage . the admittedly good-spirited story rambles like a guy telling a long joke that doesn't have a punch line . as you watch the film , you're likely to feel that you've seen it all before but that it was better last time . the predictable message of the movie is straight from the wizard of oz : " there's no place like home . " it is rated pg-13 for brief language and some sexual material and would be fine for kids around 10 and up . 
opera . for some people , watching opera with its silly and simplistic plot can be excruciatingly painful . aficionados , on the other hand , are swept up in the majesty of the music and the visuals and could care less about plausibility or any lack of depth in the storyline . for viewers who can't get enough martial arts action and who dig the latest hip hop music , romeo must die may be just their cup of tea . like a music video for mtv as directed by quentin tarantino , the movie is built of surface pleasures only . there are no characters , just stick figures . the minimal plot tries to blend elements of the godfather into a mixture of ghetto action picture and hong kong martial arts . with boundless charisma , but regretfully none of jackie chan's humor , li commands attention -- something that the rest of the movie fails to do . the movie is filled with godfather references . " i'm working on a deal , a really big deal . among the movie's more ludicrous aspects is the way it is supposedly set in oakland , but the terrain features large canadian mountains . one of the better sequences , a nicely choreographed car chase , could be used as an effective commercial about the advantages of anti-lock brakes . along with all of the traditional scenes of buildings exploding , people being mowed down by gunfire and more fights that you can count , the movie adds something new to the mixture . in addition to the sound of breaking bones , the movie uses computer graphics like an perhaps , but at least it's original , a commodity generally lacking in the rest of the picture . the film is rated r for violence , some language and brief nudity and would be acceptable for older teenagers . 
although some films , most notably trainspotting , have had some success in transforming heroin addicts into comedic subjects , addicts aren't exactly high on the list of people normally considered hilarious . jesus' son , based on a series of denis johnson short stories and adapted for the screen by no less than three screenwriters , never comes together into a cohesive or compelling story . although some scenes , such as the one about a guy with a hunting knife through his eye , possess a devilish black humor , most fall flat . dennis hopper's cameo turns unintentionally hilarious . shaving cream keeps appearing and disappearing on his face in one of the more humorous continuity errors in some time . most of the movie will leave you asking yourself , " what was that all about ? " one can make some guesses as to what it means , but the overwhelming feeling is that you don't care since fh is such a distant and unappealing character . it is rated r for graphic drug use , strong language , sexuality and some violent images and would be acceptable for high school seniors and older . 
stanley tucci should stick to acting . although admittedly not as bad or as ambitious as his last movie , the audacious failure called the impostors , this latest movie of tucci's hasn't much to recommend it other than its period sets . there is a sterling supporting cast ( patricia clarkson , hope davis , steve martin and susan sarandon ) , but they are so underutilized that they hardly count . imagine arranging for steve martin to be in your movie and then giving him a throwaway part . what a waste . ian holm , who looks like robinson crusoe in a goodwill suit , overacts with a vengeance . i'm joe gould ! " holm's performance , although cute at first , quickly becomes repetitive and irritating . with each successive picture , tucci increasingly encourages his actors to overdo it and aims too often for camp . yes , joe has a secret , but , not only is it easy to guess , it's also not very interesting . the first half hour of the picture is worth recommending , but after that , you're better off giving up rather than staying with it . like the cheshire cat , the movie slowly fades away . but , rather than leaving only a smile , all the movie leaves are some pristine-perfect period automobiles and other set decorations . it is rated r for some language and brief nudity and would be acceptable for teenagers . 
all of the above notwithstanding , the mere casting of newman in where the money is isn't enough to guarantee that the picture will be compelling . any actor needs some material to work with , and the screenplay by the writing committee of e . max frye , topper lilien and carroll cartwright is sorely lacking in plot and character development . the most impressive credentials for the latter two writers , as noted in the film's press kit , is that movieline in 1992 named their script for hello , stranger as one of the top 10 unproduced screenplays . this reminds me of the biggest bass that i never caught . you wouldn't believe its size . we know that he's a bit of a screw-up and that he likes having sex with fiorentino -- who wouldn't ? -- but we learn remarkably little more . if you did , you'd be right . similarly , the film's ending is entirely too neat , unbelievable and completely predictable . a few parts of the movie are worth recommending . personally , i would have given her two . where the money is runs 1 : 28 , but the film's slow pacing belies its short length . it is rated pg-13 for sex and language and would be acceptable for teenagers . 
moretti can best be thought of as an italian woody allen . where the two directors differ is that moretti seems so constantly and incurably happy that it is hard to take his complaints seriously . i was astonished to find the class just as full on the second day . as the students told me later , they didn't believe me because i was too nice . so it is with moretti , which takes much of the sting out of his caustic comedy . ) some of the film's most endearing images are those of moretti with his infant son . as the baby wails , moretti doesn't know what to do . what he can do , moretti figures , is promise material goods . " i'll buy you a scooter the moment you turn 14 . " among the many scenes that don't work is one involving a bowl of pasta that doesn't appear hot . one of moretti's assistants on the documentary tries to blow cigarette smoke over the pasta , but it looks fake . much of the movie's humor comes across as cold as the pasta . part of the film's humor surrounds moretti's insecurity . he is even more concerned that he doesn't have anything to say in the first place . as the frustrated moretti films his documentary , his mind strays to the film he really wants to be making instead -- a colorful musical set in the 1950s about a trotskyite chef . at the end of aprile , we get to watch a little bit of this fun little farce being filmed . this is the movie that i wish he had made rather than aprile . although aprile may find resonance among italians , much of its humor went past this american . it may be that understanding the nuances of the italian political parties would have helped . or perhaps moretti is simply an acquired taste . the movie is in italian with english subtitles . it is not rated but might be pg-13 for some language and one brief scene of pot smoking and would be acceptable for kids around 11 and up . 
that's the most likely question after seeing tar ? rin's x . the most frequent question of those who haven't seen it is about the title . the short answer is that the film has nothing to do with pornography and that it is rated r , not x . telling an apocalyptic story with stirring , visual panache , this japanese animated movie ( anime ) dazzles us with its depressing images and dramatic music . if blade runner were remade into an animated feature by the japanese , this is probably how it would look . from what i was able to piece together it seems to involve the dragons of the heavens , who come from the 7 stars that make up the big dipper , the dragons of the earth and the tokyo power grid . i am not making this up . periodically the narrator stops for a minute and introduces another batch of characters along with their history . imagine that you have never heard of christianity and that you are introduced to it by a single animated movie that covers all the books of the bible . this describes the experience of watching x , which rin directs with a mixmaster approach . the film's images are stunning , but , boy , are they ever violent . the end of the world isn't pretty . as i watched the movie , unable to figure much of it out , i began to wonder why various figures are drawn the way they are . most of them have dime-sized mouths , whereas most of the men have full-sized ones . is this the way that the women keep so fashionably skinny ? in a movie that is deadly serious , the stilted dialog provides unexpected sources of mirth . ( " you're handling the situation so stylishly , i thought it would be unaesthetic to interfere . " ) although one could write this off to bad translations , i'm not buying it . princess mononoke had no such problem , and the ridiculousness of the script for x permeates every scene . if you want to enjoy more than just x's stunning look , perhaps reading the book would help . i can't say . what i do know is that even with my usual copious notes taken during the film , i still couldn't figure it out . the saving grace is that x never made me care that i found it indecipherable . x is dubbed in english and is rated r for violence , gore and some nudity . it would be acceptable for older teenagers . 
called the filth and the fury , the film has a highly limited appeal . for fans of the group or of the group's more outlandish members , like sid vicious and johnny rotten , the movie will certainly be a must-see picture . but for others , the movie might better be thought of as the obnoxious and the repetitive . a more insightful film with a universal appeal , doug pray's hype ! about seattle's grunge rock movement covers similarly outlandish groups but does it with more insight and interest . the filth and the fury starts off quite promisingly , crediting the social unrest in britain in the mid-1970s as the group's genesis . with wonderful bits of archival film footage , this brief segment is fascinating . if painters can become famous by randomly throwing bits of paint at a canvas , why shouldn't a band become a hit solely on the strength of their foul behavior on the stage and in public ? who cares what they sound like ? people watch them , intrigued by what ridiculous thing they will do next . it's a formula that radio schlock jock howard stern has used to great success . the sex pistols spit on their fans , who can't get enough of the bad boys' antics . " spit on us again ; we love it , " they appear to say . their fans loved the band with their anti-establishment rhetoric in songs such as " i am an anti-christ " and " god save the queen : she's no human being . " we get to see , or have to see , depending on your point of view , lots of concert footage . " it shouldn't work , but it did . " it is rated r for pervasive strong language , drugs and sexual content and would be acceptable only for high school seniors and older . 
takeshi kitano , famous for his dirty harry style parts in japanese crime dramas such as fireworks , tries a change of pace in the corny comedy kikujiro , in which he stars , directs , writes and edits . like a b-movie for kids , the comedy never got a laugh from this critic , but it was certainly cheesy enough for my audience , filled with high school students . they laughed loudly , especially at its shamelessly slapstick concluding segment . essentially a road picture , kikujiro is divided into chapters introduced by cutesy , moving postcards with titles such as " mister played with me . " along the way , kikujiro mugs constantly , trying to get a laugh out of the boy and us . when he forgets that he can't see -- one of the film's many recycled jokes -- the truck driver leaves them stranded . guess what ? funny , huh ? the one complete satisfying part of the production is j ? hisaishi's music . playfully happy , it suggests a more light-hearted and better movie than kikujiro . the movie's most troubling scene concerns an incidence of pedophilia . the entire episode , even if the movie tries to make it humorous , has no business being there . i found this scene sickening and in bad taste . in contrast , the rest of the film had the taste of leftover food , badly in need of some fresh seasoning , the film is in japanese with english subtitles . it is rated pg-13 for a threatening incident and would be acceptable for older teenagers . 
of course , after such an inauspicious beginning , it would be hard for it get any worse . typical of the lame incidents in the story is the one about the killer dorito . it turns out , instead , to be a shallow cut from a dorito propelled by the hot dog . the hostages want to know whether it is " bbq or cool ranch . " even if it isn't much of a comedy , at least it's a good-spirited one . the cast gives it their all , but the material is hopeless . the movie even fails my grand canyon test . when a film , as held up does , throws in some footage of a beautiful place like the grand canyon in the hopes of giving the production a little class and then makes the site look dull with ugly , washed-out colors , you know the picture is in trouble . it is rated pg-13 for mild profanity and comic violence and would be acceptable for kids around 10 and up . 
cotton mary does a marvelous job of displaying the sights and sounds of the era but a miserable job of doing much more . " i'm half-english ! " mary reassures lily . a sickly and depressed woman , lily is so out of touch with reality that the story would have us believe that she doesn't even know how her own baby is being fed . director ismail merchant stages some lovely scenes of evening festivals but is never able to make up for the lack of a compelling script . this is the second film in less than a month about the stilted views of ango-somethings -- the other was the last september about the anglo-irish . one wonders if this is another one of those cinematic trends that studios seem to love . if we do , let's hope the next one in the series finally finds a script worthy of the subject . it is rated r for a scene of sexuality and would be acceptable for teenagers . 
how to stage the classic " to be or not to be " soliloquy has to be one of the key issues for any director bold , or foolish , enough to attempt to mount a modern adaptation of shakespeare's " hamlet . " michael almereyda , a relatively obscure writer/director , who did twister ( no , not that twister , but a comedy starring suzy amis ) and little else , chooses a blockbuster video store for the setting . among a hundred copies of lost in space , hamlet delivers , mumbles to be more precise , his classic lines . this proves an apt metaphor since almereyda's direction appears completely lost in space . modern adaptations can be audacious and invigorating retellings of shakespearean stories as baz luhrmann proved with his romeo + juliet . scenes are staged almost randomly without consideration for what impact the setting will make . were it not for the bard's marvelous words and carter burwell's great dramatic music , the film would not be worth anyone's while . liev schreiber and kyle maclachlan give nice performance as laertes and claudius . and then we come to ethan hawke as the lead character , hamlet . he comes across as surprisingly bland this time . underplaying almost every scene , he broods and ponders but rarely puts any life into his character . he doesn't appear or act like the lead . in a movie that is more cutesy than compelling , bill murray , as polonius , gives the most intriguing performance of the lot . with constant comedic overtones to his every word , his is the only performance that really comes alive . his approach doesn't always work , but at least he suggests some reason for the play's modern adaptation other than " we could , so we did . " michael almereyda's version , at half that length , feels much longer . the saving grace is that mediocre shakespeare ( and i'm not counting those adaptations that borrow only the story but not the dialog ) is still shakespeare . yes , this hamlet is an unenergetic misfire , but the words are there to savor , nevertheless . it is rated r for some violence and would be fine for teenagers . 
it is rare when the sequel , godfather part ii being perhaps the most popular example , is better that the original . regardless of the hype surrounding the change of directors in mission : impossible 2 , with famed action director john woo ( broken arrow and face/off ) replacing sagging director brian de palma ( snake eyes and mission to mars ) , the sequel doesn't even measure up to the mediocre standards set by the first . having more flat , dead spots than death valley , mission : impossible 2 drags whenever woo isn't blowing something up , switching to slow motion or staging a kickboxing extravaganza . and when , on those rare occasions , he does get the action in gear , he comes up with only a few ideas , which he uses ad nauseam . like in face/off , his characters wear false faces . this is a cute idea that woo and writer robert towne , who co-wrote the original , abuse by having people conveniently packing a host of masks for the right occasion . some of the money the studio spent for him and the expensive stunts might have been better saved until the script was worth shooting . and with such a paucity of ideas , why was the movie allowed to expand into over two hours ? with mesmerizing eyes that penetrate like lasers and flowing jet-black hair , nyah is undeniably gorgeous , but she isn't a worthy action companion for ethan . this parallels the uncertainty of director woo over what to do with the murky plot , which he turns into james bond-lite . the mysterious matter turns out to be a powerful virus -- no , not a computer one -- and a corresponding anti-virus . knowing this alone makes it easy to predict a key " twist " late in the story . don't hold your breath for any scene as imaginative as the computer room break-in from the original , since there aren't any . the leaden dialog ( " i confess . only makes the movie's long , slow sections more difficult to sit through . you feel like yelling at the screen for them to blow up something , which inevitably picks up the pace for a while . a few nice moments does not a movie make . even if woo demonstrates , on occasion , his gift for setting up vibrant action sequences , this isn't enough to forgive him for wasting our time through most of the movie . almost all of the picture's best footage occurs in the last 15 minutes , so woo does send off his audiences with a big adrenaline rush . the question is whether it was worth the one and three quarter hour wait . i , for one , expect more than a 15 minute short from a big-budget action picture . other viewers may feel similarly cheated . it is rated pg-13 for action violence and some sexuality and would be acceptable for kids around 10 and up . my son jeffrey , age 11 , gave it * * * 1/2 and was very positive on the film , the plot and the stars . he liked it a lot better than the original , which we watched on dvd last week , since he thought that the sequel had more action . 
sergei bodrov's running free is a stunningly majestic motion picture that is almost completely undermined by it's loquacious narrator , a horse named lucky . jeanne rosenberg's script spoils the sumptuous visuals by rarely letting the horse give us a moment of peace so we can savor the feast set before our eyes . trying to enjoy running free is like watching lawrence of arabia with a precocious preteen who feels obligated to share his trite thoughts with you at every moment . no matter how obvious the scene , the kid feels duty bound to explain it to you anyway . you could probably figure out the horses' desires , but motor mouth lucky spells it out for you anyway . " no one taught this to me . " so just in case you thought that running free is covered in horse school , you now know that it isn't . sometimes , thankfully , lucky stops to catch his breath . cinematographer dan laustsen uses a gorgeous sepia-toned palette to evoke a warm nostalgic feel . but mainly lucky talks and talks and talks . " i felt i could trust him . " yet another example of something we could have figured out on our own , and another instance when you want to scream at the screen to " shut up already ! " if the sound system should fail in your theater , just pray that no one else will complain . without the voices , running free would probably be absolutely wonderful . i'll never know since , i'm sorry to say , our speakers performed flawlessly . it is rated g and would be fine for all ages . my son jeffrey , age 11 , seemed fairly unenthusiastic about the movie , but he said that he gave it * * * because he really likes animals . 
don bluth's titan a . e . is an expensive saturday morning cartoon masquerading as a motion picture . although the film contains some impressive special effects and awesome sound effects , they serve mainly to call attention to how flat and unappealing most of the remaining animation is . but the real problem with titan a . e . is the lifeless script by ben edlund , randall mccormick and joss whedon . unable to fashion characters with any depth or interest and unable to come up with any meaningful or humorous dialog ( the movie has exactly one funny scene ) , the writers create a script so weak that it is almost non-existent , as if the characters just tried to ad lib their lines . maybe if the studio had brought in a fourth or fifth writer to work on the screenplay , someone would have finally found something to say worth hearing . none of the voice talent is used properly . the only reason to have them onboard is to add the marquee value of their names to the production . for an infinitely better animated adventure film see last year's princess mononoke . there are a few nice moments in titan a . e . the best sequence calls to mind the sub chase from the hunt for red october . " my scanners are picking up a veritable cornucopia of nothing , " gune tells korso , which is exactly how i felt watching the movie . more than anything , titan a . e . is like an expensive video game as the characters shoot at each other . maybe it would be fun to play with a joy stick , but observing it passively provides little enjoyment . titan a . e . runs a very long 1 : 30 . it is rated pg for action violence , mild sensuality and brief language and would be acceptable for kids around 10 and up . this is an animated film with blood , which may scare younger viewers . my son jeffrey , age 11 , gave the film * * * * , praising particularly the film's computer graphic sequences . about half of them , however , complained about the weakness of the storyline , but the all of boys' ratings were pretty high , ranging from . 
the telltale signs were all there . yes , you guessed it . in brian wayne peterson's script , which abides no subtle moments , megan's true sexual orientation is never left in question . director jamie babbit could use some of john waters's deft touch with comedy . the movie's satire is relegated to the visuals , with rachel kamerman's kitschy set decoration and alix l . friedberg's colorfully silly costumes providing almost all of the humor . the one-joke movie is cute but rarely funny . the first time we see the true direction outfits -- shocking pink for the girls and iridescent blue for the boys -- they are funny . but the uniform jokes quickly wear thin . the film's quality test , on which but i'm a cheerleader fails miserably , is what would the movie be like without the outlandish sets and costumes . the answer is that there wouldn't be much left . but i'm a cheerleader runs just 1 : 21 . it is rated r for strong language and sexual content involving teens and would be acceptable for high school seniors . 
" billy , you're not going to like this , but i'm going to say it anyway : you be careful , " swordfish boat captain linda greenlaw ( mary elizabeth mastrantonio ) radios to captain billy tyne , played with a single , wooden expression by george clooney . yes , she's right . you , however , will have to listen to lots of such hackneyed dialog in the perfect storm , a tv disaster movie of the week masquerading as this summer's big action picture . you might think billy's foolhardy actions would make him the villain of this piece , but it doesn't . but the facts that the book had to work from are sketchy so that it has to be described as a fictional tale based on what we know about a true story . this , however , has little to do with the problems in the movie . as the story opens , we find ourselves stuck in a long half-hour soap opera about gloucester fishermen and their families with divorced being the most common state . at first , it seems like the picture will never get into gear . for those few viewers who do not know the ending , the picture feels obligated to telegraph it for them frequently . the surprise is that the action in the center ring about the boat isn't in the least bit edge-of-the seat material . no matter how much water they splash around and no matter how rocky the waves are around the toy models , they are never credible . and with the fast action editing , it becomes one long , tedious and blurry bore . even when the end seems near , our eyes are the only dry part of the theater . the movie just never creates characters worth caring about . a clich ? d one involves a sailboat skippered with stupid bravado . the remarkable bravery of the helicopter crew is the only compelling story in the movie . finally , there is the manipulative ending , of which the less said the better . james horner's dramatic music conjures up images of the much better film that i thought i was going to see -- one that was worthy of the movie's superlative director , wolfgang petersen ( das boot ) . instead , i got little models tossed around in choppy water . if i had seen the movie on television , where it belongs , i would have turned it off . the fishermen of gloucester , of which 10 , 000 have died since 1632 according to the ending credits , deserve a more fitting memorial that this motion picture . it is rated pg-13 for language and scenes of peril and would be acceptable for teenagers . 
and therein lies the problem with the british comedy saving grace ; it is so low-key as to be almost no-key whatsoever . the situations in it are sometimes cute but never funny enough to provoke actual laughter . think of it as waking ned devine run at slow speed . there is even a brief scene of a scrawny old man seen running around completely nude , much like the naked , octogenarian biker in waking ned devine . frankly , one of those is enough . i've seen it ; i don't want to see it again . on the first occasion of the lighting , the movie plays " spirit in the sky " loudly . it is a moment worth a nice smile , even if no laughs . the moments that produced the most laughter in our audience were when the characters got giddily stoned with their weed . as they laughed uncontrollably on the screen , it became somewhat infectious . although it might seem that writers mark crowdy and craig ferguson were painting themselves into a corner , they managed to come up with an imaginative ending . even so , i'm an old-fashioned kind of guy . i prefer comedies that are funny . and i like to laugh every now and then . saving grace wasn't able to fill those simple requirements . it is rated r for drug content and language and would be acceptable for older teenagers . 
in pokemon : the movie 2000 : the power of one , this is about all of the almost impenetrable plot that it is possible to ascertain . perhaps those who watch the show faithfully will be able to crack more of the code . of course , if the studios had spent a small fraction of the fortune they will reap from the movie's profits , they could have come up with a decent script , one with real character development and more than a paper-thin plot . our kids deserve better . the only saving grace for this sleep-inducing tale is its lush animation . it is drawn as flat as a pancake but colorfully happy and inviting . with the intense palette of a salvador dali painting , the richly painted frames come to life as much by the panning of the camera as by the tiny movements of the characters . japanese anime can be so much better with none surpassing princess mononoke , which was close to the top of my best films list last year . as last time , the film is preceded by a 21-minute short . last time , it was called pikachu's vacation , which made the top of my worst of the year list . thankfully , this short is almost exactly the same quality as the main feature , which is to say colorfully watchable . with the possible exception of those well-versed in the television series and the trading cards , viewers will find both the movie and the introductory short visually pretty but narratively inert . it is rated g and has nothing to offend anyone of any age . my son jeffrey , age 11 , gave the film * * * , saying that he liked this one better than the first one . 
buck , on the other hands , still has the social graces and mental capacity of an immature 11-year-old . in miguel arteta's chuck & buck , one of the hits of this year's sundance film festival , buck is played with creepy innocence by the movie's writer , mike white . in a more straightforward role , chris weitz plays chuck , a hard-working music promoter . although the film does have its moments , when it gets decidedly under your skin , most the movie is so devoid of energy that it rarely involves the audience . shot on videotape , the ugly cinematography has the look of a third generation tape copy . the colors smear across the frame like a home video , which only calls attention to the amateurishness of much of the acting . " hank & frank , " however , serves only to remind us of how much worse the movie chuck & buck could have been . the film's treacly music has a childlike happiness . sometimes it seems that the movie wants to transform itself into a parody , such as but i'm a cheerleader , but it never does . as the film slowly moves along , it does manage sporadically to shock and touch us . but weitz's overly obvious acting telegraphs its big surprise so badly that it takes the punch out of what should have been the movie's best scene . instead , what we are most likely to remember is that we don't enjoy going to the theater to watch images that look much worse than our own home videos . chuck & buck runs a long 1 : 36 . it is rated r for sexuality and language and would be acceptable for older teenagers . 
interrupted by regular spurts of video-game shoot-'em-ups , the uneven film generally drags along as if it were trying to approximate slow motion without actually resorting to modifying the speed . an ambitious movie with a dense storyline of competing characters who have complicated allegiances , it promises more than it delivers . the setup and the action sequences are imaginative , but , overall , first-time director christopher mcquarrie shows more skills as a writer than a director . key sections of the movie sag when they should sizzle . others sizzle but are allowed to overcook . the frequent stupidity of the kidnappers is a plot thread that never really pays off , save providing fodder for one of the film's best lines . " is he the brains of the outfit or you ? " " to tell the truth , i don't think this is a brains kind of outfit , " confesses longbaugh . in general the story's tone is deadly serious , which is underscored by sober music , heavy on the low registers . the few comic lines are welcome changes of pace . the resulting action is surprising and hilarious . and , like the rest of the film , very gory . mcquarrie seems to pride himself on devising new ways to make the audience squirm . but even with its many problems , way of the gun isn't a bad film . the story is intriguing , and we are never quite sure what will happen next . mcquarrie does a masterful job of creating an unusual mood and atmosphere for the movie . the actor's performances are all good in revealing so little of their unsympathetic characters that we want to know exactly what they are thinking . after about an hour or so , we are more than ready to bid our players goodbye . the concluding part , when it finally arrives , feels like it will never end . we want everyone to die in the final bloodbath so we can finally get the movie over -- its intrigue having long-since given way to tedium . 
as we all know , crime doesn't pay . but in the opportunists it is the lack of crime that's infuriating . directed on snooze control by myles connell , who also penned the underwritten script , the movie is s-l-o-w . when , in the last act , the big heist finally gets underway , it is almost enough to rouse the now sleepy audience . although it's a short movie , five minutes of it feels like an eternity . the severe pacing problems and the lack of character depth are a shame since the cast does their best within the confines of their poorly developed roles . poignancy seems always just around the corner . the movie constantly appears ready to take off , but it is rarely able to start its engines . like an old biplane stuck on a runway , the rickety old plane elicits our sympathy , but we quickly tire of watching it just taxi around . or , then again , maybe not . watching the opportunists finally come into focus is like staring at a picture being downloaded over a slow modem link . even if you admire the image , the sluggishness of the speed eventually becomes mind-numbing . it is rated r for language , but with the exception of a few mildly-delivered f-words , the film would be pg , not even pg-13 . unlike some recent questionable pg-13 movies , such as nutty professor ii , which would be inappropriate for those under 14 , the opportunists would be acceptable for most kids 10 and up . 
>from the beginning we can tell that something is wrong with her . with a bad case of terminal giggles , she looks like she may need to be rushed to the emergency room at any time . certainly someone with such a constant case of nervous laughter will eventually no longer be able to breathe . it is all so sad . no , not about charlotte's disease , but about the movie itself . with its lush autumnal color palette , it is one of most handsomely filmed movies this year and has gorgeous stars to match ( winona ryder and richard gere ) . but it is saddled with a sappy , silly script by allison burnett , whose only other screenplays were for those classic films : red meat , bleeding hearts , and bloodfist iii : forced to fight . joan chen's fine direction can't overcome the problems with the script , which contains such gems as , " what's the point of being young and beautiful if it's not to keep men waiting . " the latter malady is a disease as sure and certain as charlotte's heart trouble . will tells her that , " if i could be different , i would . " nevertheless , they fall in love , or at least what passes for love in this movie . never is their chemistry really convincing . 51-year-old gere has the incredible good looks to which every man aspires . with long flowing hair that undulates like an ocean wave and with a smile that could charm even the most unreceptive , gere is just as handsome as ryder is beautiful . " you know what's wrong with people like you ? " " too much sex . it dulls the brain . " much is made of the difference in the ages of the two leads . don't worry , they didn't have sex . after that the movie dramatically changes tone from happy , happy , happy to sad , sad , sad . later , in perhaps the movie's most pathetic line , charlotte tells will , " in a year or so i could be the sob story you use to bag more chicks . " this predictable , would-be tearjerker will leave you remarkably dry eyed . with such trite dialog , this should come as no surprise . it is rated pg-13 for language and some sensuality and would be acceptable for kids around 12 and up . 
a tale so modest that 15 minutes would more than suffice in telling it all , the movie has nothing wrong with it but little that is compelling either . both of these male leads deliver noteworthy performances in this minimalist drama . this episode gives moncho the occasional nickname of sparrow . the girls' schooling , or lack thereof , is never addressed . we do know that there are girls in the town because of a scene in which young school-age kids of both sexes swim together partially clothed -- the type of scene that would probably never past muster with the mpaa censors were the movie not foreign . shot in warm earth tones , the movie is visually appealing . it is a powerful scene , but the movie needs many more such ones to be worth recommending . the film is in spanish with english subtitles . the movie would be acceptable for older teenagers . 
exuberant stand-up comedian margaret cho clearly enjoys her routines as much as her uproarious audience . as a documentary , it is the most basic , just point-the-camera-at-her variety . unlike spike lee's wonderful the original kings of comedy , in which lee incorporates audience reaction shots , coleman slavishly confines his camera almost exclusively to either full-body or just head shots of cho . we hear the audience laughing profusely but rarely see them . cho's material , which has some biting social commentary , is undermined by her fingers-scraped-across-the-blackboard style of delivery . her comedic grammar requires every funny line to be screamed with such ear-piercing shrillness that your soda container would break were it made of glass rather than plastic . the more a piece of dialog is repeated , the funnier it is supposed to be . a printable one -- " lesbians like whale watching ! " -- is screamed over half a dozen times and isn't particularly funny even the first time . reviewing i'm the one that i want is like covering most adam sandler movies . as i sat there unimpressed and never laughing , my audience was busting a collective gut . sandler crowds are like that too . my job reviewing films is not to tell you what someone else's reaction is but to tell you mine . still , it is hard to stare silently at a picture when everyone else is in stitches . guilt sets in , and you subconsciously worry that your fellow moviegoers may vote you out of the theater for inappropriate behavior . cho does have boundless energy . cho spends long segments on her distaste for straight men , saying " i am heterophobic , " and on her preference for gay men . continuing on her gay vs . straight theme , she reveals the reason that the men in gay porn are so much better looking than those in straight porn . it is so that the men watching straight porn won't accidentally have " a homo moment . " her exaggerated delivery , as always , destroys what should have been a good joke . " am i gay ? " " am i straight ? and i just realized that i'm just slutty . " although she can do cute facial contortions and exaggerated accents and can write some good material , cho is a comedian whose grating delivery made me want to cheer only once -- when the credits rolled and the theater doors opened . i'm the one that i want runs 1 : 36 . it is not rated but would be an r for strong language and sexual humor and would be acceptable for high school seniors and older . 
writer/director vivi letsou's film , skeleton woman , is like a video that you might find in the adult section of a new age bookstore . the dancers' revealing costumes look like they were designed by romanian folk dancers . the whole place is so surreal that you wonder what the point of it all is . an eclectic movie , its scenes range from arguments about rising home prices in marin county to a dance number roughly akin to two female mud wrestlers without the mud . the movie likes to cut to images of crashing waves or of olya , shown in silhouette , walking on the shore . frequently it stops to tell us tales like the one about the " skeleton woman " whose bones have been cast into the sea . the sound of the sea is her mournful cry . the film plays like an abstract poem that has been translated into prose . the story drifts back and forth like the ocean waves . although it's handsomely shot and well acted , the film is only for those who can buy into its fairly tale . to me it smacked too much of new age psychobabble , and i was never drawn into the story . the excessively cute flashdance meets new age showgirls exotic dance numbers were enough to kill it for me . it is not rated but would be an r for nudity and sexual situations . 
written , directed , produced and edited by john walsh , the movie creates handsome images but has trouble crafting a compelling story . looking similar and dressed in identical black robes , the actors play almost interchangeable parts . at one point the movie looks like it may turn into something akin to the ten little indians , but , alas , it is never that exciting . instead , the movie just drifts until daybreak ends the story . most of the movie is as obvious as its metaphors . although it is handsomely filmed and reasonably acted , the movie's most memorable moments come from the rain and wind . it's not a good sign when the best parts of a drama are the sound effects . it is not rated but would be an r for a few scenes of violence . it would be acceptable for most teenagers . 
called " passion food live , " the show rockets to popularity with its hot-pepper , aphrodisiac cuisine and its sweetly erotic star . cruz's performance is easily the best thing about the film and is the only reason one might want to see the picture . known for her work in foreign language movies such as all about my mother , cruz is a charming knockout . with one of the most delicious accents that you've ever heard , her lines come out sounding like they've been flavored with milk and honey . with her mixture of childlike innocence and fiery passion , she couldn't have been a more perfect match for what the movie should have been . filmed in lush tropical colors and loaded with dynamite food , the movie looks like it should come with a caloric warning label . surely , watching it must be fattening . opening with " once upon a time in the world of bossa nova , a girl was born - isabella , " the film tries to be a romantic , adult fairy tale -- a big budget version of like water for chocolate crossed with bossa nova . but vera blasi's thin script comes across as more silly than magical . last year's sarah michelle gellar picture , simply irresistible , covered much of the same ground but with more appeal . except for the handsome cinematography , woman on top plays like a made-for-tv movie . the story gets remarkably little mileage out of the idea , concentrating almost entirely on the sensual food angle . woman on top isn't much , but it does get you excited about cruz's next english language film , all the pretty horses . hopefully her next project will be a better showcase for her talent . it is rated r for some strong sexuality and language and would be acceptable for older teenagers . 
rodriguez's impressive acting debut , however , is the only real reason to see girlfight . although first-time writer and director karyn kusama spent 5 years preparing this project , the script is significantly underdeveloped and the director sets a lethargic pace . think of the film as rocky on valium . there's lots of brooding teenage angst , but remarkably little ever happens . the picture follows a completely formulaic arc toward the big concluding match . even though the movie wants badly to be taken as something more than another rocky balboa story . nevertheless , the movie is one-idea story -- girl rather than boy as young boxer -- that never gets fleshed out beyond its concept . the only surprise is how the final fight is edited . after waiting for an entire movie for it come alive , the ending bout happens so fast that , if you blink a few times , you'll miss it . i told actor santiago douglas , who was at our screening , that i did not like the way it was edited down to almost nothing . i agree . " it is rated r for language and would be acceptable for teenagers . 
ang ? le is played by nathalie baye , who appeared recently and quite impressively in an affair of love , an infinitely better film with a remarkably similar plot . in venus beauty institute , a light-weight comedy and slice-of-life character study , she gets the only fleshed-out character . the rest of the cast are given parts that are little more than caricature . most of the movie has her pursuing men who aren't particularly interested in her , while avoiding the only one who really is . the story is full of whimsical subplots . probably the most interesting part of the movie is it's choice of perky colors of pink and powder blue . this is complemented by the salon's relentlessly cheery chimes , which ring whenever a customer enters or exits . although pleasant enough , the movie , with its most memorable parts being its color scheme and sound effects , is not something worth recommending . nathalie baye's other recent film , an affair of love , on the other hand , is outstanding and definitely worth recommending . the film is in french with english subtitles . it is not rated but would be an r for full-frontal nudity , sex and language . 
this is the first time that i've ever started off a review by telling you what film i'm not reviewing . the 1994 version was in the original chinese and came with english subtitles . i have a critic-friend well versed in hong kong cinema , who claims the 1994 version is a classic martial arts picture of the comedic action genre . although i'm a fan now , with my favorite being his recent shanghai noon , i haven't seen any of his early films such as this movie . in order to capitalize on the chan phenomenon and knowing that american audiences are generally too lazy to read , the studio has released a poor and awkwardly dubbed reissue of the original . this review is strictly for the dubbed version . how these thoughts would apply to the original , i have no idea . i absolutely shudder to think what my second favorite film of last year , run lola run , would sound like dubbed into english . chan stars in a picture with a remarkably thin plot . in his normal outtakes shown during the closing credits , he proves to us yet again that he does do all of his own stunts , risking his life and limb . tanked up with lots of booze , which he guzzles during the bouts , he bobs and weaves so that hitting him is like trying to strike blowing grass in a strong wind . as almost an afterthought , the story lets us know that even a drunken master can over imbibe , rendering him more of a fool than a master . the beauty of chan's films is due as much to the ballet-quality choreography that he brings to kung fu as to the humor that permeates everything that he does . in a nutshell , the problem with the legend of drunken master is that there is too much fighting gymnastics and too little of the story development . this means that the story dissolves into little more than slapstick and highly repetitive fight sequences . i wanted more than this and left the theater feeling cheated . this was one of the unusual chan movies in which i didn't have much fun . maybe you will . or maybe you'll avoid this theatrical version entirely and go rent the subtitled one instead . it is rated r for violent content and would be acceptable for teenagers . 
rock 'n' roll frankenstein's writer and director brian o'hara deserves credit for his unflinchingly audacious approach to satire . making the farrelly brothers ( me , myself & irene ) look like a couple of choir boys in comparison , o'hara purposely makes a film that attempts to be good by being very , very bad . it's a tough way to make a buck , but at least he's honest and doesn't pull any of his punches . but a film this scatological , sacrilegious and down-right gross will not be something that many filmgoers will be able to stomach . some of its " best " scenes shock your system so that you don't know whether to regurgitate or laugh . a low budget horror film , it pokes fun at its own poverty through use of excessively cheesy props -- think of it as an ed wood and young john waters collaboration . in a film with no limits , ripping opening a victim's stomach isn't anywhere near the movie's worst image . the unlucky character doesn't even get a name in the script . the credits list her simply as gutted groupie . now for those of you that are still with me , we'll talk some about the story itself , which is rather clever . everyone in the story is pretty weird . iggy's fried brain contains a simple philosophy ( " a mind is a terrible thing not to get wasted . " ) the result of the big operation isn't exactly what the great doctor -- actually a fired coroner -- expects . with all of the energy of a department store mannequin , king's future doesn't initially look bright . some parts of king's body prove more successful than others , which allows the movie to sink to new lows in the pursuit of its gross brand of humor . given the antics of some of our more infamous rock stars , this film may make you think twice about their origins , but the movie does not appear to be based on a true story . one thing about the film is certain . it is liable to dichotomize the audiences into those who walk out in disgust in the first few minutes and those who manage to find its irreverent and sick brand of humor funny . if there ever was a movie that would best be seen only in the wee hours , this is it . locally , it will be showing as a midnight madness movie -- just the right time . it is not rated but would probably be nc-17 for graphic violence , strong gore , explicit sex , nudity , language , drug usage and probably a bunch of other offensive stuff which i've already forgotten . it would not be acceptable for anyone under 18 . 
it's the sort of office in which a patient , after getting the good doctor's wise advice , runs through it shouting , " i'm going to be the best damn menopause patient you've ever had ! " the movie's large and talented cast swarms around gere likes he's the queen bee . his performance , wise and soothing , is the best of the bunch . it's too bad that the flitting and unconvincing script and direction gets in the way of our enjoying the acting . this is first of many hard to buy episodes from anne rapp's script . notice how people just walk right by with few noticing a crazy , naked blonde , dancing and singing away . this casual approach to infidelity should give viewers pause . the story is way too cluttered . and shelley long is the doctor's unflappable office manager . the script's quirky charm does sometimes manage to shine through the clutter . but the ending , reminiscent of magnolia's raining frogs , reminds us again of everything wrong with the movie . for my money , the only dr . t movie worth seeing is the 1953 movie , the 5 , 000 fingers of dr . it is rated r for graphic nudity and some sexuality and would be acceptable for older teenagers . 
filmmakers seem to think that there's nothing better than a remake with a twist . writer/director greg berlanti's the broken hearts club : a romantic comedy is an amalgamation of dozens of old television sitcoms . the twist , other than raunchier language , is that all of the characters are gay . but the rapid-fire elocution of clich ? d lines isn't any funnier because the barbs are directed at the same sex . rather than treating women as sex objects , the men in this story treat other men as sex objects . uniformly handsome , they can sometimes be hard to tell apart just like contestants at a beauty contest , which is what the movie frequently approximates . " i hate the city -- everybody is better looking than me , " one is heard to say . the film is set in hollywood , well , west hollywood , so one might expect the beauty quotient to be high . in the film's defense , it is good-spirited and breezy . a glossy picture , it wants badly to charm you with its debonair demeanor . most of the guys , however , are more interested in hitting on other guys . it's only 15 . " i was left for a punctuation mark ! " the movie is just like ted ( chris wiehl ) , one of dennis's many lovers . ted is such a forgettable guy that dennis and his friends can't even remember his name , so they just refer to him by his clothes -- j . crew . the film is one big j . crew . the broken hearts club : a romantic comedy runs long even at just 1 : 34 . it is rated r for language , drug use and some sexual content and would be acceptable for older teenagers . 
inspired by marcel camus's black orpheus , carlos diegues's orfeu is a rambling , romantic tale that is laced with gratuitous violence . suggesting that the bad guys are perhaps really the good ones , the story has the drug gangs enact their own vigilante justice . every time you are ready to completely give up on the movie , the camera pulls back to reveal another stunning vista , or the music comes up with an entrancing melody . best of all are the sumptuously colorful scenes of the carnival dancers and floats . but like the rest of orfeu , the cinematography is quite uneven . for every gorgeous outdoor scene there is a poorly filmed interior one . this leaves us with a few things to admire about orfeu , but only a few . the film is in portuguese with english subtitles . it is not rated but would be an r for strong violence , nudity , sexuality and language . 
o brother , where art thou ? , an adaptation of homer's classic tale , " the odyssey , " is by none other than the coen brothers , joel and ethan . you know , the ones who brought us the big lebowski and fargo . don't worry , there aren't any subtitles , and the adaptation is loose , very loose . set during the depression , the film's imaginative cinematography looks like a print left out to bake in the hot mississippi sun , which makes the heat palpable . the cat-and-mouse story meanders like a leaf drifting lazily on a stagnant pond . this gives you reason to look for the music video and the cd of the soundtrack . it doesn't , however , provide you enough reason to see the picture , which lacks one essential ingredient , humor . this is a comedy in which i didn't laugh once nor did those around me . the coen brothers are brilliant visual stylists , which they amply demonstrated in fargo and do so again in this film . many scenes give you much to admire , even if not much to like . " i'm awful pleased my adventuring days have come to an end , " everett says at the story's conclusion . and so was i . i just wish that it had come much sooner and that i had just seen a music video of the film's singing finale rather than having to sit through the entire movie . it is rated pg-13 for some violence and language and would be acceptable for kids around 10 and up . 
for viewers who think movies should be more like plotless imax films , director martin campbell provides a feast for your eyes in the 35mm motion picture , vertical limit . your brain will likely feel starved , but your thumbs will get lots of exercise as you twiddle them waiting for the inevitable disaster to strike so that the story can finally get some traction . their rapid deaths , of course , are done so that we can have as many dramatic incidents as possible . you don't go " wow " during an imax film for the dialog . you do so when the imax movie makes you experience some vicarious moment of terror . easily , the most ridiculous part of vertical limit is the proclivity of the characters to die for the greater good . for most people , the idea of suicide as a way to help someone else isn't something they could do easily or ever . except for their displays of physical strength , neither o'donnell nor tunney gives much to their parts . this isn't a movie that stands up to much logical examination . several of the film's sequences , while impressive , appear quite impossible . the only real acting of any merit in the movie comes from scott glenn , as toeless , recluse montgomery wick . surprisingly , only once does any climber , certainly not the indefatigable wick , resort to using bottled oxygen . although paxton appears to be having fun , he delivers one of his weakest performances . the party looks like a drinking scene from a generic teen comedy . gosh , isn't mountain climbing fun ? the story even includes a pair of australian stoner dude brothers , who like to sun themselves in the buff , but who are really k2-capable climbers . it's that kind of script . my personal favorite among the many ridiculous aspects of the movie is its ability to telegraph key twists with absolute precision . without any computers whatsoever , exactly what do you calculate would be the chance that a storm will come out of nowhere ? 100% ? with its sweeping music and sometimes stunning cinematography , the film does have its rewards . but if you're looking solely for visual thrills , go for a real imax film , not an ersatz substitute . vertical limit runs a long 2 : 06 . it is rated pg-13 for intense life/death situations and brief strong language and would be fine for kids around 12 and up . 
the much anticipated and highly praised crouching tiger , hidden dragon is the most overrated film of the year . although it has matrix-inspired moments that are truly magical , these are few and far between . a talky film with remarkably little to say , it features characters that are never fleshed out or worth caring about . kung fu fans will be probably be willing to wait through more long dry spots than death valley in order to watch the fighting . others may find themselves in the unusual position of frequently checking their watches in what , one assumes , is supposed to be an action picture . certainly , if the action sequences were removed , the rest of the comatose script would not be worth watching . in crouching tiger , hidden dragon , director ang lee ( sense and sensibility and the ice storm ) has come up with the least interesting film of his career , one that is , on the whole , not up even to his last effort , ride with the devil . needless to say , the others will want to get it back . the trailers show almost all of the good scenes from the movie . almost all of their movements do not occur naturally in nature . these sequences could have formed the basis for a wonderful motion picture , but , as soon as the action stops , the actors start to slowly , painfully slowly , drone on with some of the most lifeless dialog of the year . based on the trailers , i expected a magical motion picture . instead , i got a tedious one that is interrupted sporadically by interludes of brilliance . according to my watch , with which i become well acquainted during the screening , i believe that there are about 10 minutes of a great movie interspersed into an exceedingly dull one . see the trailers ; skip the movie . the film is in mandarin with english subtitles . it is rated pg-13 for martial arts violence and some sexuality and would be acceptable for kids around 11 and up . i suspect , however , that most kids will be quite bored . 
i don't know about you , but when i hear politicians railing against violence in movies , i'm never sure exactly what movies they are talking about . any example that i can think of never seems to be quite to the level that they are complaining about . well , i think i've found an example in series 7 , which is something akin to a pulp fiction version of the television series " survivor . " since this is the seventh version of " the contenders , " it is referred to as " series 7 . " the movie feels like a television series in which the commercials have been removed . makes it appear that series 7 is real . you can also sign up to be on the series . i suspect that many who visit this site will be repulsed as it could be argued that it does appear to glorify violence . then again , they purposely make it hard to tell what is real and what isn't . although the program feels real , the contestants' actions do not . the show's premise is intriguing and parts are done well , but the repetitive nature of the format and the lack of convincing behavior by the actors turn what could have been a fascinating film into a sleep-inducing one . there were several cute parts , of which one of my favorites was the show's " sudden death overtime " period , in which these words were taken literally . this much you have to give the movie -- it never pulls its punches , it is quite unusual and it consistently sticks to its format . you may not like the results , but you have to admire its courage . still , this is the sort of movie that will have some people in outrage . it is rated r for strong violent content and language and would be acceptable for college students . 
a consummate dilettante , he's never quite satisfied with anything . this constant recycling of art works is turned into a form of storytelling by the filmmaker . the movie shows us his successive painting variations in stop-action animation which gives his images a certain life of their own . i must admit that i kept wishing that he was a more interesting artist since we have to see so much of his work . the problem with movie , written and directed by jochen kuhn , is that , much like edward's pictures , kuhn never finishes anything . everything is surface gloss , and none of the characters are ever defined well enough to care about . schell doesn't lend much to the movie other than the marquee value of his name . his performance is as just as weak as the other actors . poser , who has a definite position of power in the art world , boasts , " if i tell people it's good , they agree . " much is made of the silliness of what passes for art . although it seems to take forever , his indecision does finally get resolved in a cute way that would work great in a brief epilogue . instead , it is drawn out into a long last act , thereby destroying almost all of its impact . this is a movie that is definitely just messing around . it is not rated by the mpaa but would be an r for nudity and some language . it would be fine for most teenagers . 
antitrust , a thinly veiled cinematic diatribe against bill gates and microsoft , is a thriller about truth , justice and the open source code movement . gary is made to look and dress almost exactly like gates . " the justice department is driving me nuts ! " but wait , synapse has more than killer apps . in a pseudo-wink to the audience , gary says that he's not like bill gates . with this line the studio can argue , perhaps not with a straight face , that gary winston really isn't meant to be bill gates after all . putting aside the bill gates connection , the movie is pretty much a standard thriller in which no one is quite who they seem to be . robbins approaches his role like that of a cad in a vaudeville melodrama . you half expect him to grab a cloak , cover his nose with his elbow and sneer into the camera with a " ya , ha , ha . " still , as an over-the-top thriller , it is far from the worst . the film , directed by peter howitt and written by howard franklin , works hard to get the details of the technology and the slang right . even if what they claim to be able to accomplish with their gadgets may have more technologically sophisticated viewers guffawing , the script is at least fairly consistent . gary , who munches pringles non-stop and guzzles pepsi , -- don't you love those product placements ? how do you spell clich ? ? well , gary has been watching milo -- and i do mean " watching " -- and wants him to come to work instead on synapse's hottest product . it's a bet-the-company project that must ship in less than two months . you see , we are lectured about how nefarious synapse is because it will not give away its source code . " the software business is binary , " gary , acting like some kind of cult leader , lectures milo . " it's either one or zero . you're either alive , or you're dead . " gary , who speaks in something approximating marketing slogans , likes to scream things like , " no limits ! " oh well , given the other films opening friday , antitrust can lay claim to the title of only the third worst film of the week . antitrust runs 1 : 43 . the film is sometimes in technogeek , but there are no english subtitles . it is rated pg-13 for some violence and brief language and would be acceptable for kids around 11 and up . 
perhaps " story " is too strong a word . as directed by painter julian schnabel , whose only other movie was the also overrated basquiat , before night falls is more a collection of half-formed images than any kind of a proper story . spanning reinaldo's entire life , it never creates a single fully formed character . when the ending credits finally roll , all we know for sure about reinaldo is that he was gay , persecuted and mother-fixated . there are only hints of his literary skills . the film suffers almost exactly the same problem as finding forrester , the other recent movie about a writer . both movies spend enormous effort on side issues , while never bothering to give us examples of the writer's work product until the very end . see if you can recognize them . the rest of the supporting cast isn't the least bit memorable . schnabel makes some unusual and frequently unsuccessful choices . the movie is mainly in english , but , capriciously and sporadically , the characters begin to speak spanish with english subtitles . his use of grainy archival footage is the most successful as it gives the movie more authenticity than any of the acting . the picture's lead , javier bardem , keeps the same withdrawn look throughout . his lack of energy and the director's languid pacing make for tedious viewing . we are reminded of castro's persecution of anyone deemed counter-revolutionary , such as writers or homosexuals , of which reinaldo was both . schnabel , however , doesn't have a clue as to how to stage this . the only interesting part is one camera angle taken from the inner tube's viewpoint . the movie is filled with lost opportunities . rather than build on the indoctrination issue , the story tosses it out and then drops it . but after showing it , this isn't properly developed either . what we are left with are some wonderful images and a terrific and eclectic score that includes the adagio from mahler's 5th -- always a good choice . my favorite of the visuals involves an escape effort by hot air balloon . but , like most escapes , it fails . the movie is like that . lots of good images surrounding a failed attempt at storytelling . part of the film is in spanish with english subtitles . it is rated r for strong sexual content , some language and brief violence and would be acceptable for high school seniors and older . 
with its whimsical music and its bright colors set against a hazy background , the movie wants to be savored as a sweet fairytale for adults . working from joanne harris's novel , screenwriter robert nelson jacobs creates a script that is little more than a sketch , a problem that he had in his last effort , disney's poorly plotted dinosaur . jacobs throws in a myriad of slightly quirky characters that give us some reasons to smile but rarely to laugh . some of the townsfolk find that a chocolate fix is better than viagra , so they buy it in bulk . even the dogs are aroused by its consumption . our audience found the funniest scene to be that of two dogs , doing it well , doggie style . the fact that canine sex produces the movie's largest laugh is proof that the script needs some major surgery . johnny depp , who usually infuses any role with an intriguing energy , plays his part of a river rat , an irish gypsy , with good looks and little more . he seemed to be posing for the movie's promotion stills and didn't realize that the director had called , " action ! " after lots of chocolate eating and a few nice little moments , the movie throws in a couple of predictable tragedies to invoke some quick tears in the audience before it rolls the ending credits . the only thing you might remember about the film a day later is one of its chocolate confections . eat a chocolate ; skip the movie . chocolat runs 2 : 01 . regardless of what the title and the setting might lead you to belief , the film is in english , not french . it is rated pg-13 for a scene of sensuality and some violence and would be acceptable for kids around 12 and up . most kids , however , are likely to be bored . 
beautiful but headache inducing . kwon-taek im's chunhyang can probably best be thought of as a korean opera . featuring extensive sung narration in a type of ancient korean music called pansori , which features a male singer whose singing sounds more like screaming , the movie can be jarring to untrained ears . i haven't wished for earplugs so much since years ago when i took my young son to a live performance of the power rangers . the professor says that he didn't like pansori the first-time he heard it but that most people like it once they get used to it . that may be , but life is short , and i hope to avoid activities that assault my ears whether it be from the power rangers or pansori . to you , pansori may not be noise . it may be , well , music to your ears . the singer , accompanied only by a drum , which his voice easily drowns out , is the film's narrator , and the movie is a dramatization of his long , narrative song . the concert was four and a half hours long , but the film , thankfully , only runs two . as they cut to the concert's audience , we see living proof that many koreans are extremely moved by the music with reactions ranging from tears to dancing in the aisles . there are no surprises in the script or the acting . the same cannot be said of the production , which is sumptuous . the sets are impressive , the cinematography has a golden glow , and the costumes are intriguing . my personal favorite was the tall black hat with the wide brim that many of the men wore . mark twain once said that " wagner's music is better than it sounds . " it may just be thus with pansori , but , for me , it's dominance of chunhyang destroyed any hopes of my enjoying the film . on the other hand , the minimal story and acting aren't particularly compelling on their own . chunhyang runs a very long 2 : 00 . the film is in korean with english subtitles . it is rated r for some sexuality and would be acceptable for teenagers . 
the ending credits do not confirm it , but it would appear that no cheerleaders were hurt in the making of francine mcdougall's sugar & spice , a cross between drop dead gorgeous and bring it on . sporadically cheesy fun , the movie is one that will probably earn such accolades as " not too bad " and " could have been worse " from most viewers . first-time write mandy nelson does come up with some wickedly funny , over-the-top gags , but most of the time the movie coasts aimlessly along like a car stuck in neutral . you will be surprised and probably not particularly pleased to learn that this is another almost-r rated film that the studio has just squeezed into a pg-13 rating , like a hippo trying on a bikini . in a scene that works precisely because it is so utterly ridiculous , he runs down the field for a touchdown as she runs along the sidelines beside him . " love isn't all you need . " even though it isn't worth recommending , i can unequivocally say that sugar & spice is better than most teen comedies . at worst , it's merely boring , rather than gratingly awful . and , hey , i laughed . okay , not often , but i did find several incidents humorous . given the other members of this film genre , this is more than might be expected . sugar & spice runs 1 : 33 . it is rated pg-13 for language , sex-related humor and some thematic elements and would be acceptable for teenagers . 
and these are just the minor issues . based on the first of a series of best selling novels by jerry b . jenkins and tim lahaye , the story is really about the end of the world as we know it after the chosen few , actually the chosen 142 million -- plus or minus a few souls -- have ascended into heaven . neither as bad you might fear nor as good as you might hope -- see the rapture for a successful picture with similar themes -- left behind : the movie alternately intrigues and baffles the viewers . sometimes watching it makes you think that you need a secret decoder ring to be able to grasp the intricacies of the confusing plot . ( whether detailed knowledge of the bible would clear up many of the movie's mysteries is debatable . ) this painfully true sentiment is like much of the movie , which is overacted but true to its principles . the story has much to say . it is a shame that it couldn't have done a better job of it . it is rated pg-13 for violence and would be acceptable for kids around 9 and up . 
did i mention yet that agent 11 is a dog ? if this sounds like a silly kids' comedy , it is . repeatedly falling in the same pile of dog poop got the most laughs at our screening . don't ask . perpetual slob gordon transforms james from his excessively healthy diet of bran cereal , soy milk and prunes to a heavily sugar-laden one of non-stop junk food . the result is like giving an alcoholic a gallon of vodka . see spot run runs 1 : 34 . it is rated pg for crude humor , language and comic violence and would be acceptable for all ages . my son jeffrey , almost 12 , gave the picture * * * . he said that he liked the dog and the plot . he commented that he particularly liked the way that they built the characters . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
the claustrophobic and static movie is in bad need of some opening up . this isn't helped by the music choices , which are uniformly disconcerting and just flat all wrong . after spending time listening to these four unknowns party , you will feel like cassandra , who remarks to charlie , " i am so sick of this . " me too . it is not rated but would be an r for hard drug usage , violence , language and sexual situations . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
monkeybone is the second film this week -- the other was 3000 miles to graceland -- that doesn't live up to the promise of its trailers . monkeybone is by far the better of the two , which isn't exactly high praise . the stunning visuals look like a cross with the nightmare before christmas , the bar scene from star wars and a nightmare vision of an amusement park . although the images devilishly delight the audience , the script is as dead as the afterlife , called downtown , in which most of the movie takes place . to be fair , he is a wonderfully gifted comedic actor and his failures come mainly from an inability to say no to terrible scripts . at least not unless death gives him a gold-plated exit pass . rose mcgowan does a sweet turn as kitty , stu's helper in the demented downtown . chris kattan , as a dead gymnast , gets the most laughs . if it sounds gross , it is . personally , i was impressed by kattan's acting but found the jokes merely stupid . please treat the projects that you are offered as you would a serious illness . once you receive the script , ask for a second opinion . it is rated pg-13 for crude humor and some nudity and would be acceptable for kids around 12 and up . jeffrey ( * * ) said that he didn't laugh once but that he thought the plot was imaginative . maxim ( * * * ) commented on how much he liked the characters and the fantasyland part . sam ( * * * 1/2 ) said that he found the movie very funny . nickolas ( * * * 1/2 ) mentioned how interesting he found the whole setup . all of them liked the organ donor part . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
it wants to be a heart-warming film , but it comes across flat and relatively humorless . the only big laugh at our screening came from the death of a little dog , a scene better played for tragedy than comedy . a very untalented comedian , he is particularly proud of his flipper voice impersonations . ( i'm not completely sure why they felt that they needed observers . ) and these are only some of the menagerie of characters . the movie marks time until it ends spectacularly . it is a truly magical moment . it's too bad that the rest of the picture isn't up to this level . the film is in spanish with english subtitles . it is not rated but would be pg-13 for the animal death scene . the film would be acceptable for kids around 10 and up . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
although handsomely filmed and respectably acted , the thin script never gets us involved . the movie drifts along without giving us much reason to care about the events . the film does make a few cute statements about the rudeness and pomposity of some cell phone users . the film is in japanese with english subtitles . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
a bad martin short -- is there any other lately ? -- chews up the scenery as an obnoxious high school play director who looks like bobby darren dressed as the devil . he says things like , " me thinks thou better not botch it , " to his cast . this second movie feels almost like an afterthought in order to obtain studio funding . the first movie doesn't deserve this crude level of humor . containing several imaginative dream sequences and a cute ending with a musical adaptation of shakespeare's " a midsummer night's dream , " get over it could have been a sweet little movie . instead , we end up feeling sorry for the two likable leads , foster and dunst , who have to endure all of the story's failed attempts at making recycled bathroom humor funny . it is rated pg-13 for some crude/sexual humor , teen drinking and language and would be acceptable for teenagers . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
if you're steven seagal , you will , of course , get in trouble with your superiors for using excessive force . exit wounds , by director andrzej bartkowiak , a cinematographer whose only other directorial assignment was on romeo must die , is a standard issue steven seagal picture . with plenty of car crashes , loud explosions , noisy guns and corrupt cops , the script follows the usual formula . only in the brief introduction of a dot-com subtheme does the film vary from the standard recipe . too bad they couldn't have gotten quentin tarantino to do a cameo as the vice president . now , that would have been funny . tom arnold provides the movie's humor , playing controversial television host henry wayne . watching this intelligent actress being completely wasted in such a mindless role is embarrassing . if you have a high tolerance for violence and like lots of stunt work , exit wounds delivers . sit on the front row so that you can get the maximum adrenaline rush . the movie is like a roller coaster ride at an amusement park , so you might as well go for maximum thrills . those wanting a bit more substance for their entertainment dollars would be well advised to pick another theater door . it is rated r for strong violence , language and some sexuality/nudity and would be acceptable for older teenagers . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
although it is infinitely better than his first attempt , it isn't much of a movie . a lightweight comedy which surrounds some clich ? s about the need to respect women , it does have the occasional laugh and is filled with strikingly beautiful , wealthy people possessing great bodies and the right revealing clothes to show them off . sure . the real star of the film and the best looking one of the bunch is jackson smith , played by morris chestnut . the movie , which the director says that he likes to think of as refusing to exhale , gives the guys great looking women to spurn . a nice platitude . the movie rarely rises much above that level . it is rated r for strong sexual content and language and would be acceptable for older teenagers . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
say it isn't so ! is another comedic misfire produced by the farrelly brothers ( me , myself & irene ) . although there are a few good laughs in it , most of the film stays at the crudely unfunny level with jokes about a wife who uses her armpits to salt her husband's food and a guy who gets his arm stuck up a cow's anus . first-time director james b . rogers's next film is american pie ii . i can hardly wait . heather graham ( bowfinger ) is fairly wasted as jo since the script gives her little to do other than smile a lot with the intensity and honesty of a politician looking for votes . but -- surprise ! and , even bigger surprise , he really isn't . in the spirit of full disclosure , there were a couple of scenes that were so surprising and shocking that i did laugh loudly . it is the show and tell part of the meal that i found so funny . and finally , the ending is cute even if somewhat predictable . wait for video and keep your finger by the fast forward button . say it isn't so ! runs just 1 : 33 but feels longer . it is rated r for strong sexual content , crude humor and language and would be acceptable for older teenagers . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
just in case we miss the similarities , the movie has jagger say things like " make my day ! " and lest we miss the connection between elliot's brand of jewish humor and woody allen's , there is a dream sequence in which elliot sounds just like woody . about an undercover cop who investigates international crimes in the world of fashion models , this movie within the movie has the potential for some nice parody but get little screen time . most of the comedy is flat and obvious . like a jet without enough power to lift off the runway , the film just taxis around slowly . slack pacing is deadly for comedy , especially for one like this in which the good lines are few and far between . even the best lines aren't anything to write home about . " i think i need something more neutral on the walls , " joey says in the film's best interchange . " you could always hang up a map of switzerland , " elliot suggests as a solution . it is rated r for language , sexual content and some violent images and would be acceptable for most teenagers . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
in the story's best line , the funeral home brags in its advertisements that it's " your pit stop to the afterlife . " the script by david dean bottrell and jessie jones , based on their play " dearly departed , " might well have worked when it was a play , but , as a movie , it feels so much like a typical television sitcom that it's a wonder that it doesn't have a laugh track . of course , since this is a slapstick comedy , the movie doesn't expect us to take any of this seriously . although harmless enough , the movie is rarely funny . my personal laugh count was zip . still , if you're a fan of tv sitcoms , which i'm not , you might like kingdom come . some very vocal members of my audience certainly did . it is rated pg for thematic elements , language and sensuality and would be acceptable for kids around 8 and up . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
in the romantic comedy bridget jones's diary , ren ? e zellweger looks absolutely awful as bridget jones . with a splotchy complexion , bulges everywhere and stringy hair , bridget eats , drinks and smokes too much . badly miscast as the british heroine , zellweger , in a monotonic performance , never gives us much reason to care . in case we forget how we're supposed to feel about bridget's aspirations and emotions , the film's heavy musical accompaniment is also there to remind us . i kept trying to remember that advice while waiting for the ending credits to arrive . bridget jones's diary runs a long 1 : 35 . it is rated r for language and some strong sexuality and would be acceptable for most teenagers . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
disney's atlantis : the lost empire mindlessly follows an animated formula so old that it creaks . the movie's exterior sequences dazzle with sweeping grandeur , but the interior ones are as flat as the story's lifeless , silly dialog . " i want this monster served up on a silver platter . " they all look act like tired veterans of a hundred saturday morning cartoons . where is the imagination and humor that disney put into tarzan ? it had more to offer in five minutes than atlantis does in a long hour and a half . and atlantis really pales in comparison to dreamworks' shrek . long sections of atlantis could put those under thirteen to sleep . sometimes it is the funniest joke in a disappointing movie that best defines the film's limitations . that's as good as atlantis ever gets . it is rated pg for action violence and would be acceptable for any kid of any age . my son jeffrey , age 12 , gave the film * * * , saying that it was " good but wasn't that funny . " his friends , rajiv , maxim and sam , all 12 , gave the picture * * * * , saying that it was creative and had a good plot . in the silicon valley , it will be showing at the amc and the century theaters . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
the mummy returns , again directed by stephen sommers , is a film with a complex . it's a relentless movie that seems in constant fear that if it ever slows down for a minute the entire audience will walk out . rarely pausing to smell the flowers or to provide the requisite motivation and background , the confusing story scurries around like the thousands of scorpions that take the place of indiana jones's snakes . and speaking of indiana jones , the movie wants badly to morph into an indiana jones-type franchise , a movie it mimics constantly . it also borrows liberally from the fight sequences of star wars episode i - the phantom menace and the creatures from gremlins . gone is the campy charm from the previous mummy . instead , we have lots of nifty computer generated effects and warriors and non-stop action . this is the perfect movie for 12-year-old boys , since most have grown too sophisticated for saturday morning cartoon mayhem . this time weisz gets many opportunities to flex her muscles , and she turns out to be a surprisingly credible action star . arnold vosloo again plays the mummy im-ho-tep . not content with a single villain , the sequel adds wwf's the rock playing the scorpion king , im-ho-tep's competition . what seems to never end is the movie itself . i lost count of the number of " endings " that were merely preludes to other fight sequences . as a display of computer generated images , the movie does dazzle and impress . it can also be imaginative with a jules verne inspired boat/dirigible being the most memorable . " you know , " rick confesses , " a couple of years ago , this would have seemed really strange to me . " that's the problem with the sequel . we've seen it all before . the only idea that the director had for the sequel was " more . " more special effects and lots more fighting . its target audience will undoubtedly love it . it is rated pg-13 for adventure action and violence and would be acceptable for kids around 11 and up . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
although this might sound dramatic , which it is briefly in a tear-jerking ending , most of the movie is a hardscrabble , slice-of-life story in which nothing much happens other than slogging through deep snow . large , tractor-sized tires are apparently one of the most popular items on the black market , and one mule can carry two tires -- just barely . among the film's most memorable moments are the sounds of rolling thunder rippling across the mountain tops as the kurdish smugglers try to avoid another ambush . what you are left with when you leave the theater are a few nice images but little more . the film is in kurdish and farsi with english subtitles . it is not rated but might be pg-13 for mature themes and animal violence and would be acceptable for kids around 10 and up . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
like reheated leftovers , crocodile dundee in los angeles , the third and hopefully last in the series , has little spice left . there are a few mildly humorous moments , but you've seen it all before . paul hogan's fish-out-of-water story was funny the first time out but already tired by its second outing . in its defense , this third episode is at least harmless family fare that just barely earns its pg-rating . you can take your little ones without concern . " no worries , " as crocodile dundee would say . starting and ending in australia's walkabout creek -- population 20 -- the movie lets us observe lots of flora and fauna , especially the colorful fauna . hogan is a likable bloke with dark-tanned , crocodile skin . the intense australian sun has added a lot of wrinkles since we saw him last . no dundee movie would be complete without several knife jokes . the story's minimal plot concerns a money-losing movie studio that keeps making lamer and lamer sequels of a film ( lethal agent ) . how's that for far fetched ? it is rated pg for some language and brief violence and would be acceptable for all ages . my son jeffrey , age 12 , gave it * * 1/2 , saying that he liked it but that there weren't any high points or low points . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
the mummy returns , again directed by stephen sommers , is a film with a complex . it's a relentless movie that seems in constant fear that if it ever slows down for a minute the entire audience will walk out . rarely pausing to smell the flowers or to provide the requisite motivation and background , the confusing story scurries around like the thousands of scorpions that take the place of indiana jones's snakes . and speaking of indiana jones , the movie wants badly to morph into an indiana jones-type franchise , a movie it mimics constantly . it also borrows liberally from the fight sequences of star wars episode i - the phantom menace and the creatures from gremlins . gone is the campy charm from the previous mummy . instead , we have lots of nifty computer generated effects and warriors and non-stop action . this is the perfect movie for 12-year-old boys , since most have grown too sophisticated for saturday morning cartoon mayhem . this time weisz gets many opportunities to flex her muscles , and she turns out to be a surprisingly credible action star . arnold vosloo again plays the mummy im-ho-tep . not content with a single villain , the sequel adds wwf's the rock playing the scorpion king , im-ho-tep's competition . what seems to never end is the movie itself . i lost count of the number of " endings " that were merely preludes to other fight sequences . as a display of computer generated images , the movie does dazzle and impress . it can also be imaginative with a jules verne inspired boat/dirigible being the most memorable . " you know , " rick confesses , " a couple of years ago , this would have seemed really strange to me . " that's the problem with the sequel . we've seen it all before . the only idea that the director had for the sequel was " more . " more special effects and lots more fighting . its target audience will undoubtedly love it . it is rated pg-13 for adventure action and violence and would be acceptable for kids around 11 and up . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
adultery , a popular french film topic , has a potentially interesting twist in under the sand ( sous le sable ) , by fran ? ois ozon ( criminal lovers ) . told with minimal dialog and long wistful scenes of crashing surf , the thin story doesn't come close to sustaining the movie's glacial pacing . instead of being intriguing , this art house snoozer just becomes tedious , seeming much longer than its actual length . even if its central theme has promise , it's never developed into anything compelling . still , you've got to applaud the belief the french have that people , even those without model-like bodies , can be sexy , not only after 30 , but even well after 50 ! it's an amazing concept that hollywood would never be comfortable with unless one of the lovers was in his or her twenties or maybe thirties . your heart , however , will likely be someplace else entirely . when you're supposed to be caring about marie , you'll probably find yourself more interested in your watch . the film is in french with english subtitles and in english . it is not rated but would be an r for brief nudity , sex and language and would be acceptable for older teenagers . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
although it never achieves lift-off , its clich ? d story boldly comes out foursquare against anti-semitism . among its musical treats are melodic opera arias , lip-synced by john turturro in a silly beard , and a moody rendition of " gloomy sunday , " lip-synced by christina ricci . after working hard , albeit with mixed success , on making the accents authentic , potter gives up on only one nationality , the germans . the only characters with american accents are the nazis . since we've seen all of this before , the only things we're likely to remember are the visuals . depp makes one heck of a handsome gypsy , and turturro looks ridiculous as an opera singer . it is rated r for sexuality and would be acceptable for teenagers . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
jan hrebejk's divided we fall ( mus ? me si pom ? hat ) , a life is beautiful lite tale , has trouble deciding on its tone . long serious moments are punctuated by whimsical , light-hearted music , suggesting that we should be laughing , although at what isn't apparent . the settings are authentic , but the acting comes across fairly flat . as the credits roll , the movie opens in 1937 in a field in which men are urinating together . this brief scene is aborted in order to skip to another inconsequential episode in 1941 . as the story jumps again to 1943 and the credits are still showing , you being to calculate that the story will end sometime in the twenty-third century . actually , it turns out that the movie is set during the ending of world war ii . the purpose in this bizarre beginning is never quite clear . one supposes that it must have been an attempt at a lightning fast introduction of the characters . the problem with the movie is that too many of the characters seem to have mastered this statuesque lack of expression . the result is a movie that has little impact , save a few nice moments here and there . it is rated pg-13 for some violence and sexual content and would be acceptable for kids around 12 and up . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
a sometimes cute but too often flat tale , this sequel tries to get by with easy to devise , recycled humor ranging from piles of pigeon poop to a large , gaseous bear ( voiced by steve zahn ) . even the music choices lack originality . how many movies have featured " i will survive " recently ? there are so many that i've lost count . sometimes redoing old themes can be funny . you take the fish ! " using the canonical kids' movie theme , the story features evil and unscrupulous big businessmen -- are there any other kind in kids' shows ? -- who are out to despoil the environment . specifically , these guys , played by jeffrey jones and kevin pollak , work for a lumber company that is going to cut down trees so that people can live in houses . shocking . still , some of the animals are cute . no matter how hard he tries to switch color schemes , he just stays an icky green . the result is an innocuous , but far from inspired film . wait for video when the rental price will better reflect the value of the entertainment . it is rated pg for language and crude humor and would be acceptable for most kids . my son jeffrey , age 12 , gave it * * * , liking the animal humor and the funny musical numbers . none of them laughed much during the movie , but they smiled a lot . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
but with it's thin narrative , based on mitchell's off broadway play , the story doesn't have much to offer save its one , recurring visual joke of hedwig belting out songs in nondescript salad bars and coffee shops , whose patrons don't know what to make of hedwig and his band . few are impressed , and most just stare , which was about my reaction to the movie . to be fair , comedy is a very personal medium , and the stranger on my left laughed constantly . these drawings left me as cold as the rest of the movie . perhaps if i had liked the music , which i didn't , i could have enjoyed the film . as it is , all i can say is that mitchell does throw his heart and soul into the production . i just wish that the result had more to offer than a promising beginning . it is rated r for sexual content and language and would be acceptable for older teenagers . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
given the score's killer cast ( robert de niro , edward norton , marlon brando and angela bassett ) , you will probably be expecting a lot . start to lower your expectations , because the score plays like a slow motion version of entrapment with de niro attempting a geriatric rendition of catherine zeta-jones . still , de niro gives it his all , which is a lot more than can be said about brando , who phones in his small part . even the usually outstanding norton delivers one of his less memorable performances . bassett , playing a disapproving girlfriend , has a part that would be better cut out entirely . in a script full of fat , hers would be the first character that should go . working from a script created by no less than 4 writers ( daniel e . taylor , kario salem , lem dobbs and scott marshall smith ) , director frank oz ( bowfinger ) tries to move from comedies to thrillers . for some reason , he forgot that thrillers , especially thinly plotted ones like this one , need energy like comedies need laughs . and the writers forgot that thrillers need twists , lots of twists to keep the suspense up . expect to spend most of your time slumped back in your seat rather than on the edge of it . only the brief last act has any punch . one suspects , and hopes , that this movie will be buried at the summer box office by better movies and that the cast will go on to be seen doing much better work in future films . the score runs a long 2 : 03 . it is rated r for language and would be acceptable for kids around 12 and up . my son jeffrey , age 12 , gave it * * * . he said that he liked the characters , the techniques of the robbery and plot's twists . in the silicon valley , it will be showing at the amc and the century theaters . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
it doesn't make any difference how late , your friend won't miss anything since the movie plays like an uneventful three hundredth episode of a soap opera that you've never seen before . don't get me wrong , there are a lot of things to admire in the film , written and directed by anh hung tran ( cyclo ) , but all of these are associated with the film's look . they are unusual in more ways than one . this slightly moving tableaux is a treat for your eyes , but your mind will leave quite unsatisfied . and the length ! almost two hours . this brings us to my first rule for filmmakers . if you don't have anything to say , at least say it quickly . vertical ray of the sun runs a long 1 : 53 . the film is in vietnamese with english subtitles . it is rated pg-13 for thematic elements and some sex-related material . it would be acceptable for kids around 11 and up , but kids of any age are unlikely to find much to hold their attention . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
although their mindless banter is cute at first , listening to them becomes as tiresome as being stuck at a cocktail party between battling spouses . favreau , who wrote the bright script for swingers , writes and directs the surprisingly mediocre made . it's the type of film in which positive comments on its short running length will generate a good portion of the discussion afterwards . oh yes , and they are not supposed to talk to anyone . don't be surprised if you find yourself wishing that someone would jump out from a side street and plug one or both of them . one wishes that the actors would have fought more about the script before they started the filming , as both of their foulmouthed characters show potential . as people kept walking out of our screening , it was easier to sympathize with their plight than with the characters in the story . anything more is overkill . made runs 1 : 33 . it is rated r for pervasive language , some drug use and sexuality and would be acceptable for most teenagers . my son jeffrey , age 12 , gave the film * * . he thought that it was only " okay " and complained that it didn't have much of plot . in the silicon valley , it will be showing at the amc and the century theaters . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
there's a whole lotta gruntin' goin' on as actors in ape suits overact with a vengeance in tim burton's remake of planet of the apes , his battlefield earth . both films suffer from poor character development and dopey dialog . although planet of the apes is much better made -- burton is a great visual stylist -- if forced to sit through one of them again , i'd go for battlefield earth , at least it was campy fun . planet of the apes is dreary and overwrought . kris kristofferson , as daena's dad , plays one of the script's many clich ? d characters . although most of the apes look and act alike , it is tim roth , as general thade , who is given the key role of the main villain . the apes run around saying things like , " how many times do i have to tell you to wear gloves when you handle humans ? " when they're not spouting their ridiculous lines , they fight like a bunch of wild animals . in the big battle scenes , burton finally gets it right . these are great moments worthy of a master of the visual . but most of the movie is one silly scene after another . the original was fun , but the remake is dreary , violent and takes forever to get to the brief last act , the only successful part of the remake . the movie does contain one comedic gem . " one thing you don't want in your house is a human teenager . " it is rated pg-13 for some sequences of action/violence and would be acceptable for kids around 10 or 11 and up , depending on how well they can handle violent , frightening images . my son jeffrey , age 12 , gave it * * * . he thought it was awesome , realistic and funny , but he was bothered by some of the story's logic . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
almost nothing will cause maria and her friends to talk much above a whisper , which makes this glacially paced , emotionally dead film hard to stay with . sure , its topics are extremely important , but this story isn't worthy of them . you might expect that the band would at least form a significant subtheme since it gets a lot of screen time , but it doesn't . periodically , the movie attempts to make important statements about kids facing adult problems . the scene ends as one girl throws out a line about how it would be a relief to be shot dead . if the actors had any emotional attachment to their parts , this could have been a powerful moment . but , like the rest of our song , it just doesn't resonate because we never believe that the girls mean anything that they say . it is rated r for language and some teen drug use and would be acceptable for older teenagers . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
jan hrebejk's divided we fall ( mus ? me si pom ? hat ) , a life is beautiful lite tale , has trouble deciding on its tone . long serious moments are punctuated by whimsical , light-hearted music , suggesting that we should be laughing , although at what isn't apparent . the settings are authentic , but the acting comes across fairly flat . as the credits roll , the movie opens in 1937 in a field in which men are urinating together . this brief scene is aborted in order to skip to another inconsequential episode in 1941 . as the story jumps again to 1943 and the credits are still showing , you being to calculate that the story will end sometime in the twenty-third century . actually , it turns out that the movie is set during the ending of world war ii . the purpose in this bizarre beginning is never quite clear . one supposes that it must have been an attempt at a lightning fast introduction of the characters . the problem with the movie is that too many of the characters seem to have mastered this statuesque lack of expression . the result is a movie that has little impact , save a few nice moments here and there . it is rated pg-13 for some violence and sexual content and would be acceptable for kids around 12 and up . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
the adventures of felix ( dr ? le de f ? lix ) , jointly written and directed by olivier ducastel and jacques martineau , is a gay romance and road trip that never amounts to much of anything . although handsomely filmed by matthieu poirot-delpech , the picture is about as memorable as a nondescript television soap opera , which is something that the lead character , f ? lix ( sami bouajila , the siege ) , dotes upon . much of f ? lix's life consists of popping pills ( he's hiv positive , something the film doesn't dwell on ) , guzzling bottled water and watching his favorite morning soap opera . he seems to like his life , but it doesn't make for a particularly compelling narrative . better return the baby -- but not the car -- to the baby's screaming mother . if there is an audience for this slice-of-life story , it might be as an erotic tale for gay men . f ? lix is a handsome guy , and there is a lot of open mouth kissing and passionate embraces shown in the movie . personally , i found only one section cute . it's a wacky moment that recalls abbott and costello's famous " who is on first ? " routine . but even this incident will be forgotten by tomorrow morning . i've already forgotten the rest of movie , and i just saw it an hour ago . thank god for notes . the film is in french with english subtitles . it is not rated but might be an r for language , sexuality , violence and nudity and would be acceptable for older teenagers . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
eighty minutes . that's how long it takes before captain corelli's mandolin ever comes alive . still , that is ten minutes sooner than pearl harbor . both pictures suffer from making their audiences wait and then giving them very little reward for their patience . based on louis de berni ? res's novel -- which i am told is quite good , the movie is directed by shakespeare in love's john madden . with madden's languid pacing and shawn slovo's sappy script , the movie begs for a one word review : yuck . nicolas cage , as captain antonio corelli , and pen ? lope cruz ( all the pretty horses ) , as pelagia , deliver two of the least interesting performances of their careers . madras likes to beat his chest while saying corny things like , " i don't know how to tell you what's inside here . " when she complains that in a war there is nothing to sing about , he explains , " i've always found something in life worth singing about , and for that i do not apologize . " keep your eyes open because , if you blink , you'll miss their love scene . i felt the same way about the movie . it is rated r for " some violence , sexuality and language " and would be acceptable for teenagers . my son jeffrey , age 12 , gave the film * * . although he was able to identify a few scenes that he liked , over all he felt that the movie was at best " okay . " in the silicon valley , it will be showing at the amc and the century theaters . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
pretty boy josh hartnett , last seen unimpressively in pearl harbor , delivers an even more underwhelming performance in tim blake nelson's o . first-time screenwriter brad kaaya's script for o is very loosely based on shakespeare's othello . mekhi phifer ( i still know what you did last summer ) plays the team's star , odin james , and hartnett is the team's very jealous , utility player , hugo goulding . nelson has all of his actors speaking in whispers . this risky technique can work , as it did spectacularly in the deep end , but with actors more interested in posing than working , the effect is sleep inducing . sheen , to his credit , does chew up the scenery in a hopeless attempt to wake up the sleepy production . the very preppy , southern school -- both sexes are required to wear blazers and ties -- has only one black , odin , a kid of fairly average height who appears nba bound . having one lone black allows the screenwriter to throw in a bunch of clich ? d racial lines . although it contains one of the most unconvincingly staged murders in recent memory , the last act does breathe some needed life into an otherwise s-l-o-w movie . it is rated r for violence , a scene of strong sexuality , language and drug use and would be acceptable for most teenagers . in the silicon valley , it will be playing at the amc and the century theaters . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
set to a modern beat and scripted with modern dialog , the movie is a pseudo-historical , would-be comedy . starring a bunch of relatively indistinguishable young male leads and one token female ( ali larter ) , it is a formulaic film carefully designed to appeal to just the right demographics . ( if you're looking for a contemporary take on an old story , a knight's tale is much more sharply written and a whole lot more fun . ) so the film can have explosions worthy of the next die hard sequel , both sides are given great dynamite . a stick of this stuff and entire buildings go up in a flash , completely demolishing everything . employing burma shave type signs -- bet you didn't know that they had them way back then -- the boys also use dynamite to scare people into doing what they want . if the movie does have a saving grace , it is this . perhaps this undeserving film will do great box office and thus encourage the studios to make some good westerns again . this is not as crazy an idea as it might seem . remember , it was less than a decade ago that unforgiven won a bunch of academy awards , including best picture . it is rated pg-13 for " western violence " and would be acceptable for kids around 7 and up . my son jeffrey , age 12 , who thought the film was really excellent , gave it * * * 1/2 . in the silicon valley , it will be showing at the amc and the century theaters . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
don't worry , you'll feel right at home since it is a retro future in which flashlights and many other technologies haven't advanced at all in almost two centuries . the movie's unluckily possessed humans , a group of miners , look like members of the heavy metal band kiss . those going in hopes of the over-the-top fun of carpenter's last picture , vampires , will leave disappointed . here the action is merely ridiculous without the energetic fun of vampires . still , after a lifeless first act , the movie does pick up the pace in the middle . the result is an uneven movie that's much less hit than miss . as desolation , ice cube's lack of acting talent turns into an asset , making his stilted dialog come across as campy wit . the barbs they trade put enough needed life into the movie to make you hope that it will finally take off , but it never achieves lift-off . although some of the drug usage in the story looks a bit too inviting , one scene could serve as an excellent public service announcement against drugs . it is a sickly funny scene that becomes one of the more memorable incidents in a movie whose memory has a half-life measured in minutes . it is a joke in which you know the punch line before it's delivered . most of the movie is like that . ghosts of mars at least has the good sense to run only 1 : 38 . it is rated r for " strong violence/gore , language and some drug content " and would be acceptable for older teenagers . in the silicon valley , it will be showing at the amc and the century theaters . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
in silvio soldini's sometimes cute but excessively long comedy bread and tulips ( pane e tulipani ) , the story starts in an italian tour bus . this would-be gumshoe , who looks like john candy playing colombo , always wears a rumpled trench coat , a bright , mustard colored shirt , a frumpy hat and clip-on sunshades . he sneaks around the venetian alleyways like a pudgy pink panther . these visuals of the awkward detective provide most of the story's limited humor . a big hit in its native italy , bread and tulips generates few laughs on this side of the atlantic . i found it rather comparable to a typical television sitcom , which isn't exactly a glowing recommendation . bread and tulips runs a long 1 : 52 . the film is in italian with english subtitles . it is rated pg-13 for " brief language , some sensuality and drug references " and would be acceptable for kids around 8 and up . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
the pseudo-radicals who live there are such unwavering marxist leninists that they refuse to drink coca-cola and eat meat . another disagreement comes over whether it is acceptable to walk around the kitchen with absolutely nothing on below the waist . if together is supposed to be a comedy , then it is a completely laughless one even though some of the situations do have promise . as a drama about the shallow and lonely existence of the commune members , it is slightly more effective , but the director's flat presentation never involves us much in the lives of these remarkably uninteresting characters . the handheld camerawork , full of gratuitous zooms , gives it a home movie feel . life outside the commune is even more depressing than life within . the characters have some fleeting moments of bliss . and , as the movie drones on , sleeping is something that you may find yourself contemplating . the film is in swedish with english subtitles . it is rated r for " nudity/sexuality and language , " would be acceptable for older teenagers . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
welcome to hollywood , where anything can happen . as izzy , the entire movie rests on wahlberg's shoulders , and he can't carry it . last seen as the star of the remake of planet of the apes , he has an incredibly limited emotional range . the script by tv writer john stockwell starts and ends well enough but contains a vast wasteland in-between . director herek's experience directing a bunch of pooches running around or kids skating around doesn't help him fashion a meaningful or exciting film about the world of heavy metal rock legends . the musical concerts are all done by the numbers . one scene , any scene , from almost famous has more life than all of rock star . " now , i'm one of them . " i wish rock star had given us reason to care . although it is so bland that it's sometimes hard to tell , the movie wants to be a cautionary tale about the cumulative effect of nightly bouts of promiscuous sex with groupies and lots of drugs . guess , what ? it is rated r for " language , sexuality and some drug content , " and would be acceptable for most teenagers . my son jeffrey , age 12 , liked the music but thought the movie itself was just okay . he gave it * * 1/2 . in the silicon valley , it will be showing at the amc and the century theaters . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
hardball , directed by brian robbins ( varsity blues ) and written by john gatins ( summer catch ) , contains more miraculous conversions than a revival . an awkward blend of the bad news bears with boyz n the hood , the movie strains credibility with every plot twist . conor is an almost completely despicable character until , in the last act , he makes his saintly transformation . reeves plays an unsympathetic character and plays him badly , so his fans might want to skip this film . they are such trash talkers , trash mumblers to be more precise , that it is easy to see why the movie originally got an r rating . the team is so bad that a 16-to-1 loss is cause for minor celebration . although conor does little more than take attendance and lean against the fence , the kids miraculously learn the game of baseball without anyone teaching them . " don't you think i might have something better to do than worry about you guys and your little baseball team , " he tells them on one of the many times when he abandons them . the last act is a tear-jerker that makes the movie questionable for kids under 12 who may be significantly traumatized by it . you have to give the film this . through a twist of fate , it is strangely topical . it is rated pg-13 for " thematic elements , language and some violence , " and would be acceptable for kids around 12 and up . my son jeffrey , age 12 , thought it was a really good movie and gave it * * * . in the silicon valley , it will be showing at the amc and the century theaters . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
it's also about the contrast between the handsomeness of the film and the way that it's so overacted and ridiculously scripted that it's sometimes kind of fun . his program consists of one world , one government , one goal and one language -- hint , it's not chinese . the pesky americans balk at joining stone's party . i'll bet you thought that hitler had an attitude . why york felt he had to camp it up isn't clear since the movie clearly wants to be taken seriously . ( the music , which doesn't have a subtle note , reinforces the gravity of the situations . ) of course , the movie will move towards a cataclysmic conclusion that might mean the end of the world . that part contains my favorite scene as stone sheds his worldly body and becomes a really cool looking gargoyle . it's a moment to remember . it is rated pg-13 for " violence , warfare and some thematic elements " and would be acceptable for kids around 10 and up . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
if this death by twirling sounds familiar , it should . iron monkey , a movie almost a decade old , is being re-released to u . s . theaters in order to ride on the coattails of last year's kung fu smash hit , crouching tiger , hidden dragon , since yuen woo-ping choreographed the kung fu sequences for both films . it might be pointed out that few people , if any , actually die in iron monkey although much pain is inflicted . it's also a pg-13 movie that pushes the limits of blood acceptable in a film not rated r . the basic plot concerns a zorro-like masked legend who fights for the poor and leaves behind a picture of a monkey rather than a " z . " although the fights are performed with great technical proficiency , they are quite repetitious . still , they are the best parts of the movie . the rest is slapstick that is overacted with a vengeance . many people find this brand of silliness funny , but i am not one of them . on their own , the characters are kind of endearing , but the minimal plot gives them little to do but leap about . i found the film completely forgettable . still , if you're a fan of this genre , you probably already have this movie on your don't miss list . i hope you enjoy it . i tried , but i couldn't . iron monkey runs too long even at 1 : 25 . the film is in cantonese dubbed into mandarin -- or perhaps it's the other way around -- with english subtitles . it is rated pg-13 for " martial arts action/violence and brief sexuality " and would be acceptable for kids around 12 and up . my son jeffrey , age 12 , who was pretty bored by the movie , gave it just * 1/2 . he thought the action was creative , but he had problems with most of the rest of the movie from the thin plot to the fact that unrealistically ( almost ) no one died . in the silicon valley , it will be showing at the amc and the century theaters . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
liam , a lackluster rendition of an angela's ashes-type story by director stephen frears ( high fidelity ) , connects all of the usual dots . just as secular religions like environmentalism are universally acclaimed in films without question , christianity generally appears in movies only to present an easy villain . in liam , the catholic teachers and priests are sadistic figures that make the devil look pretty attractive by comparison . one of the film's themes contrasts christianity and communism , with communism coming out more compassionate . in the movie's least credible part , jews enter the story only so that the movie can boldly beat its chest against both anti-semitism and fascism . most of the story , however , is more tedious and clich ? d than political . it is in jimmy mcgovern's script that most of the problems lie . the acting , with one notable exception , is fine . with a single dour expression , young actor anthony borrows plays liam , a lad of about eight . the over-the-top script feels it necessary to give liam a horrendous stutter , as if his character weren't tragic enough already . the ending to liam is not to be believed . it has one of those horrible and ridiculously improbable ending incidents that occur only as plot devices in movies . if you're looking for a liam-type story , rent the genuine article , angela's ashes , instead . the latter has its problems , but it's much preferable to liam . it is rated r for " some nudity and language " and would be acceptable for teenagers . in the silicon valley , it is showing at the camera cinemas and the century theaters . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
hinton novel , " the outsiders , " we decided to view the 1983 movie of the same name . my son swears by the book , and i was ready to swear at the movie . although not a really bad film , it completely wastes an excellent cast , which includes c . thomas howell , matt dillon , ralph macchio , patrick swayze , rob lowe , emilio estevez , tom cruise and diane lane . and , for some , the biggest surprise of all is the director of this tale that plays like a disney movie that might be titled spin and marty get serious . the movie's stilted dialog is by first-time screenwriter kathleen rowell , who went on to write screenplays for television movies . with few natural scenes in the film , the acting is never convincing . the movie plays like one long introductory class in method acting . compare , for example , the pretentious performances in the outsiders with the more recent bully by larry clark , which was frighteningly realistic with the actors delivering translucent and riveting performances . the best part of the movie is the sometimes deliciously dreamy and other times decidedly dramatic score by carmine coppola . but , like the rest of the movie , it has its problems , namely that it never fits . in carmine coppola's defense , one suspects that if the acting were more credible , the music might not have felt so out of place . read the book . skip the movie . the outsiders runs 1 : 31 . it is rated pg for violence . the film was released before the pg-13 rating was introduced . if it were released today , it would be pg-13 . the film would be acceptable for kids around 11 and up . my son jeffrey , age 12 , gave it * * * , saying it was pretty good . he loved the book and enjoyed the movie . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
[this film was previously titled killer when it played in film festivals . ] bulletproof heart is a movie with a strange name and a bizarre twist on an old theme . the script is good and provides several large laughs . he pops these little magnesium pills at the right time and instant courage just like the badge for bravery on the cowardly lion in the wizard of oz . the acting was good all around except i did not like the character played by craven--he got on my nerves after a while . i have seen rogers give much stronger performances ( see sometime someone to watch over me or the rapture ) , but she was pretty good here . an age i can certainly indentify with . ) the best work was done by lapaglia and boyle . ultimately bulletproof heart is not a mystery as it is trivial to guess the simple twists in the plot . the ending is certainly telegraphed from the beginning . this movie is a two-person character study , and either that works for you or it doesn't . for me , i liked some of the banter of the dialog , but kept feeling left empty . the show never offends , has some quite good moments , but it just did not work for me . if you see the show , be sure and stay to the absolute end . after you have learned in the credits that this new york and " jersey " movie was actually filmed in vancouver and after the very last credit has rolled past , you get more movie ! i am not sure if you would call it a serious outtake or an epilogue , but whatever it is and whatever it is supposed to mean , most people will probably miss seeing it--unless they are smart enough to read my reviews that is . the movie runs about right at 1 : 37 . it is not rated , but i suspect it would get a ( soft ) r for its very low key , less than most tv shows , violence , some heavy and a little unusual sex , and 10 milliseconds of female nudity . it would be fine for any mature teenager , but i can not bring myself to recommend it to anyone . i award it * * for the script and some good acting . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are solely mine & not meant to reflect my employer's . 
according to the press reports , this scottish movie is one of the most popular movies in britain in recent times . i loved the choice of names . ( to be fair about names , i should point out that there was only one king of england with my name ( steven ) and that he was arguably the worse of the lot . ) this movie is fascinating and has a whole series of great plot set ups . the filming is imaginative and takes many risks . the actors and actress are good with the exception of mcgregor who does alex as the standard obnoxious character you have seen done many times before . i thought fox gave the most intriguing and fully developed performance--i look forward to seeing her in more movies in the future . the small part of hugo was the briefest but perhaps the best . there is a lot good about this show and yet it is seriously underdeveloped . the characters start off fine , but then are not given any memorable lines . many times the writer will create a scene quite well and then do nothing much with it . if they had written a much stronger role for the police it would have added to the tension and the drama greatly , but the police characters were just grafted onto the plot . the movie seemed too concerned with style over character development we end up with a hitchcock-lite tale that has gratuitous violence a la steven king or any slasher movie pasted on in place of a viable script . the good news is that the violence is contained to a relatively few number of scenes . the movie runs about 1 : 37 , but for the small amount of material they had , it needed to be 10-15 minutes shorter . it is correctly rated r for scenes of extreme violence that has the audience gasping aloud " oh my god " and for a little bit of nudity . i found that even i had to look away after a while during the long violent scene . i don't think this show is appropriate for teenagers . i liked many parts of the movie so i gave it * * , but i can not bring myself to recommend it . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are solely mine & not meant to reflect my employer's . 
the only thing these people have in common is that are all major bizarre . but don't tune out yet because the writer begins to weave a story of extreme complexity . he manages to run into a series of characters each one of which has the audience wondering if this character is important or not and will he be the link to the exotic nightclub story . and all of that is just the plot set up . whew ! this labyrinth gets more convoluted from there . the last scene manages to tie up most of the major loose ends , but much remains an enigma when the screen goes to black . the director/writer ( atom egoyan ) manages to take a lot of risks in his writing , but his directing was too cautious . i loved the mystery , but at the same time found that i did not care about the characters because he had them play their parts too surreal and aloof . too often it seemed he was more interested in the texture of the images than in the people . the movie was basically sort of a blue velvet-lite in feel but without its violence . the cinematography by paul sarossy was great . the effect in the nightclub was bright lights of intense blues and greens with the other parts of the set in clear but less saturated colors . the pet store had an eerie feel due to the camerawork . the movie runs 1 : 41 which seemed about right . it is rated r for varying degrees of female nudity in about 1/3 of the scenes . there was no sex or violence . i agree with the rating that the show is for adults . i give it mild thumbs down as i wanted better acting and better directing , and i award it * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are solely mine & not meant to reflect my employer's . 
it is completely predictable but full of a warm and generous heart . it says nothing you have not heard before , but it is a simple , sweet , and life affirming show to watch . the boy has good taste since the dog is extremely lovable , gentle , loyal , and smart--all believably so . it is easy to want to keep this dog . their parts are inconsequential and poorly written . rogers seems to go from one minor role to another which is a shame since she has a lot of talent . she was terrific in someone is watching over me and in the rapture . [now the rapture was an extremely unusual show] . the movie is about whether , and if so how , they will return . you could write the plot yourself . it is that simple . for a kids show though i thought it sufficed . i especially liked the way the boy always treated the dog with respect . the movie runs 1 : 30 which felt fine albeit perhaps a bit short . it is rated pg only for a few scary scenes of wild animals and dangerous cliffs . my son ( almost six ) handled it all fine and was only a little scared . he said he liked the movie . he and i would both give it a mild thumbs up for kids . for grown-ups , it is a sweet and relaxing time at the movies but it never engages your brain . for young kids , say under 5 , who might get scared of a wolf snarling , this movie might prove too much . i give it * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . reviewed written on : january 30 , 1995 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
the degree to which they stretched the truth for dramatic purposes , i have no idea since i know only of beethoven 's music and little of his life other than he was deaf at the end . for some reason , the script's plausibility never bothered me , and i took the movie totally on face value . immortal beloved is told as a mystery , but actually the mystery is more of a ruse to be able to tell the story of beethoven's life in a fresh way . his music turned his female fans ( isabella rosselini , johanna ter steege , valeria golino , and others ) into ecstasy , and he had many lovers , groupies if you will . perhaps . i am not a big fan of gary oldman . i found his sid and nancy repulsive in the extreme . he has done some acting i like , but his specialty is playing despicable characters ( he was lee harvey oswald in jfk ) . the minor character parts of the movie played by steege and golino i found i enjoyed the most . now , unless you are an historian , comes the only real reason to see movie--the music . the show opens with a piano sonata and ends with an amazing set of images while playing the ode to joy part of beethoven's last symphony . what do you think of when you hear his choral symphony ? i sure never thought of what they did , yet it worked wonderfully well . the music is all directed by sir . i have to mention the art decoration as another outstanding part . you are transported to 18th century vienna , and it feels so real you think you are in a time machine . actually , the credits show it was filmed in prague , but hey , save a few bucks wherever you can i suppose . the script is pretty outlandish and tries to cover way too much material . the editing is too choppy . finally , i just did not buy oldman as beethoven . i thought he was miscast and he certainly overacted . it does seem like producers feel they can only make movies about composers if they show them as bizarre and quirky individuals . i think back to the only movie about by far and away my favorite composer - gustav mahler . it was called simply mahler . sure . the movie runs too long at 2 : 03 , but if they felt that they had to cover as much ground as they attempted , then it should have been a 3 or 4 hour movie . [actually , the show featured some very effective kissing . ] i think older teenagers could see it though since it does present the items above in a non-exploitive fashion . if you are a lover of classical music , then you will probably enjoy yourself as i did ; otherwise , i would say skip it . i give it a very mild thumbs up overall , and i award it * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . reviewed written on : january 26 , 1995 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
the script uses the actual diary of one of the girls to narrate the show . what is right with this movie is the true story and the excellent performances by both of the lead actresses . lynskey reminded me a lot of the actress from angel at my table which was also set in new zealand . the romance between the two girls is quite convincing and well done . sad to say that the writer and director , peter jackson , could not decide what kind of movie he wanted to make so he made three . this works very well . it could have easily been a * * * 1/2 movie if he had stuck to that . i guess he decided that would not sell enough tickets . the movie tries to be a comedy as well - a sort of true story harold and maude . this works for some people . the woman in front of me spend almost the entire movie in one belly laugh after another . just having lynskey smile or frown would set her off . i found it funny a few times , but as a comedy it was a * show . the saddest part was that they spent a lot of money on special effects and made a significant part of the movie in a sword and sorcery show ala willow or excalibur . this was an abysmal failure for which i would have given it no stars at all . so they had some great material and they blew it ! i give heavenly creatures * * and do not recommend it . it runs too long at 1 : 38 . it is correctly rated r , but i think older teens could see it if for some reason they so desired . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
love affair is at least the third remake of the original 1939 love affair . unlike sleepless in seattle which was loosely based on the original , this one shares most of the key story elements . it has other smaller cameos as well such as ray charles singing a classic christmas song of his . the best way to describe this movie , also written by beatty , is that it is first and foremost , a mood piece . the photography of tahiti interlaces the whole show as does the dominatingly loud music of the 30s . it leaves you with a sort of bali high ambiance and the feeling of having drunk a soothing cup of warm tea on a foggy evening . the camerawork is spectacular . the whole show has the warm glow of a renoir . as a travelogue , as a tour de force in camerawork , and as a mood creator , it is excellent . where the movie falls down is the story and the characters . beatty has a monotonic delivery style which makes it hard to believes he really cares about anything . bening is so lovely to look at ( ok , ok , beatty is not too bad looking either ) , but the lines she gives were not convincing enough for me . yes , in real life they are a devoted couple , but the romance they displayed in this movie was not believable or interesting . they did have a few memorable lines , but on the whole it just did not click . i am not a fan of cameo rules by actors approaching senility . too often the audience just ends up feeling sorry for the actors . hepburn's performance was an exception to this rule . it is incorrectly rated pg-13 . this is a pg show . there is no nudity or violence ; there are 3 very mild cuss words that are whispered . any kid old enough to be interested in romance can see this show . on the other hand , i give it just * * and do not recommend it to anyone as it just did not work for me . if you go , you may fall asleep some as i did , but you will never be offended . you will forget it all soon after you see it with the exception of the visuals of tahiti . wait and rent it . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
this is your traditional , lets play it conservative and do nothing that could upset or offend anyone sort of show for little tykes . the movie takes no chances . other than the obligatory , lets make them think someone is going to die scenes , it is a sugary sweet show . i found it frequently boring , but never offensive . then again , o'toole is such a beautiful actress , i really missed seeing her in the flesh . for it being a true story , for the wonderful seal ( he is really cute ) , and for the absolutely wonderful ending scene ( i came close to crying in a show that almost put me to sleep ) , i rate andre * * . i give it a mild thumbs down , and recommend it only to people under 13 . my 5-year-old boy liked andre , and he gives it a thumbs up , i should point out . the movie runs 1 : 35 . the mpaa rates it pg for reasons that totally escape me . the lion king was more pg than this show which is clearly a g . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
milk money has a lot going for it . it has two stars i like , melanie griffith and ed harris , and has an interesting plot . if you have seen the trailers , you know it has a lot of good comedy . on the other hand , this is a schizophrenic movie . it can not make up its mind if it is a movie for the early teen set or its target audience is grownups . every time the script starts to click in one direction , it stops entirely and switches . you get to like the movie and you start laughing , and then it enters another slump almost as if it is scared to follow through with the courage of its convictions in either direction . this part of the plot works very well and produces a lot of laughs . notice in the show that harris is shorter than griffith . this is not unusual , but normally , they are careful with the camerawork to mask the difference by the direction of the shots . here it is okay to be a shorter man . even the kids in the show have girlfriends taller than them . i especially liked this aspect being to some extent a height challenged male . much of the show is devoted to a romance between harris and griffith which is not played in a believable fashion , and there is no real chemistry between them . there is another boring and unnecessary subplot about bad guys wanting to find griffith . this subplot seems to be from another movie and to have gotten stuck in this script by mistake . worst of all is the depiction of what it is like to be a single dad . it depicts cliches of single daddydom whereby the son and dad microwave tv dinners for 100% of their meals and always race , stopwatch style , to see who can gobble down their dinners the fastest . chaining himself to his car to save a swamp is certainly the low point of the movie . i had a pretty good time at the movie since much of the comedy part did work , but i should point out that if you have seen the trailers , you have seen half of the jokes already . i can not bring myself to actually recommend milk money , and i give it * * . it runs 1 : 50 and is rated pg-13 for a little bit of profanity . actually , i think that kids around the 7th grade area would probably get a kick out of the show and for that age group alone , i would give it a mild thumbs up . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . reviewed written on : september 2 , 1994 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
wyatt earp is an epic of a movie made on a grand scale . kevin costner plays wyatt earp from age 20 on . i know that seriously dates me . this is a classic lawrence kasdan movie . he produced , directed , and wrote it . kasdan likes important films that make statements . here he makes a movie full of sweeping grandeur and absolutely wonderful dramatic music ( james newton howard ) that never stops . demille would have the loved it . costner is always interesting to watch , and he is in this movie . with the exception of dennis quaid , the other performances are fine , but nothing special . quaid was badly miscast . for a better doc holiday see the quirkier but fascinating performance by val kilmer in tombstone . wyatt earp is rated pg-13 for a fair amount of blood . teenagers will be fine at it , but keep the little ones away . it runs an incredible 3 : 10 , but feels more like four hours . it got * * from me and a mild thumbs down . if they would have cut out an hour , i could have boosted my rating to * * 1/2 and recommended it , but as it is , i give it a thumbs down . in fact , if they lightened up a bit and did not treat every scene like it was the parting of the red sea , i probably would have even given another 1/2 star . if you go see it , you will leave very tired , but will have some beautiful scenes to remember . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . reviewed written on : july 2 , 1994 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
glenn gould was one of the most enigmatic performers of all time . he is arguably the most gifted and certainly the most controversial pianist ever . i learned a lot about glenn gould from the movie . i knew he would hum while performing his music and that you can hear the humming on the recordings if you listen carefully . he would call people up at all hours and talk to them about anything and everything . he even made a lot of money in an obscure stock by telling everyone he knew , and he knew many influential people , that a certain famous sheik was interested in the company . he did not listen well , but , boy could he ever talk . i applaud the script writer for taking a risk , and i enjoyed learning about glenn gould , nevertheless , i can not quite bring myself to recommend the movie . too many of the scenes just did not carry enough interest for me . if you go , you will be treated to some wonderful music however . thirty-two short films about glenn gould runs about right at 1 : 33 . it is not rated , but would probably be pg , but i think only teenagers and older would be interested in it . i rate it * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
babyfever is a henry jaglom movie , and his movies are an acquired taste . it was one of my favorite movies of the 80s . jaglom's style is that of a homemade documentary where the actors and actresses are told to act like they are not acting . he did not appear in the movie which surprised me since he is usually in his pictures . almost all of the movie happens during a 2 hour baby shower . to add a bit of comic relief , there is a side plot about the " rich " husband whose house is being used for the shower . the movie within the movie is great . the women are very funny and insightful with many great lines . i've tried that - it does no good . that is not what i want , i want a baby . " these one-on-one interviews are fascinating , and i can easily recommend this part of the show . most of the movie however consists of the awkward acting and dialog of the shower itself . this part is trite and tedious . the wheeler dealer subplot is kind of a nice diversion but nothing special . all of the techniques , operations , and drugs they discuss may sound foreign to some , but sounded familiar to me . it is a close call , but i can not recommend the movie because the main part was too banal and poorly acted . overall , i rate it * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
it is a movie populated with sweet , non-offensive characters . it is told as if it were a true story and yet the tone of the film is that of an aesop fable . it is the sort of show that will undoubtedly work its charm on many of you . although the movie is billed as the latest hugh grant flick , it is an ensemble cast . the movie is about the fix . the story is predictable which is probably okay since it is a fable and not a mystery . the characters are all played with great and consistent gusto by all of the cast . all she needs do is give her infectious smile at the right time and the screen lights up . hugh grant ( so wonderful in four weddings and a funeral and sirens among others ) gave a nice performance , but not his best . it is his goal and the script he wrote that was my problem with the picture . for me the characters , while cute , were not credible enough to be believable nor humorous enough to be funny . to me it was an attempt at droll humor that failed . i almost felt guilty about not caring more for a sweet little movie with carefully drawn characters , effective cinematography ( vernon layton ) , and dramatic music ( stephen endelman ) . i found the slow pacing by the editor ( david martin ) and the low key tone of the dialog boring and even sleep inducing at points . the englishman who went up a hill , but came down a mountain runs fairly short at 1 : 38 , but it felt much longer . it is a g show that tried and succeeded in getting its more marketable pg rating by throwing in a few mild cuss words . no one would be harmed by seeing this show , but i can not see how it would appeal to kids under 8 . i award the movie * * for good acting , but give it a mild thumbs down as it just did not work for me . i have trouble with shows with elevated saccharine levels . you may fall in love with this movie if you have a higher tolerance . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . reviewed written on : may 19 , 1995 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
the movie then moves to the past and brings us up to the present in a straight forward chronological sequence . this historical footnote is an effect way of reminding american viewers that the real california natives are mexicans and the immigrants are the actually the americans who took over california and redefined the social structure . here the family was reminiscent of the large italian families in the godfather albeit the sanchez family's many brushes with the law were not near as dramatic or as often . the acting by esai morales and elpidia carrillo was the best . morales gives a performance full of life . his performance was the most interesting to me although jimmy smits had the character with the most anger and potential . for a small role , elpidia carrillo won over my heart . the cinematography was of equal quality . every scene appeared to be filmed in the last ten minute glow of sunset . many scenes were actually filmed then , you can tell by observing the shadows . for a show so well constructed and which tries so hard to do for mexican americans what films like to live did for the chinese , i must admit i was extremely frustrated by it . like a rock skimming across a pond but never getting wet , we meet , but only briefly , numerous characters . we are told innumerable stories some of which they have little time to act out but feel compelled to tell us anyway . watching the movie it is as if your neighbor invites you over to tell you the story of his vacation , flashes 800 slides in front of you and then wishes you good-bye . you leave knowing very little about a lot of places , but not knowing anything in much depth . contrast this script with that of to live which also spanned 3 decades . in that movie , the scenes lasted much longer , and we got to know the characters much better . she should have cut out more scenes and gave the ones left more substance . another , albeit smaller problem , is with the believability . were this not being presented documentary style , one could ignore plausibility , but not as presented . surely she could have hitchhiked , earned money for bus fare or something . it is in english , but with the first ten minutes in spanish with english subtitles . it is rated r for knife fights , some blood , a little profanity , and brief nudity , but it is a mild r . this movie would be fine for teenagers to see on their own , but i do not think it is appropriate for younger children . i found the picture too frustrating to recommend it , but i do award it * * for great intentions and partial success . in the small theater where i saw it , everyone left early except me . i don't think they missed anything since after a while the surface skimming got repetitious . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . reviewed written on : may 22 , 1995 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
die hard with a vengeance is the latest and hopefully last of the die hard movies . i am sorry to say that this die hard tells the story of a mad bomber who is blowing up large public buildings causing massive destruction and who threatens to blow up even more if mcclane and zeus do not follow his every instruction to the letter . i say i am sorry because the horrors of the oklahoma bombing were too fresh in my memory to let me enjoy the special effects . they were just too real . on the other hand , most of my opinion of the movie would have been the same even if it were in not released in such close proximity to the oklahoma tragedy . in this highly derivative movie , we have two plots . die hard with a vengeance is directed by the same one , john mctiernan , who did the original die hard rather than die hard 2's renny harlin . de souza is a much more seasoned writer starting with his first movie , 48 hrs . whose success was a tribute to his funny , intelligent and imaginative script as much as to eddie murphy's acting debut . the good news about this most recent die hard is that we have lots of action , some funny lines , great special effects of mass destruction , and exhilarating car chases . the bad news is that you have seen and heard this all before in so many other movies . the script has little new in it other than some new ways to destroy people and buildings . i must admit , i really did like the plot twist around the motive for the second major bombing . as far as the acting goes , it was fine , but nothing fresh . bruce willis is the same in every role . he has a single character he can play , although in some movies , he does shave . i loved die hard and die hard 2 and thought he was terrific in each . here he is too much of a retread . here he does the most he can with the character he is given . he does a good villain . by half way through this overly long picture , i was getting exhausted by all of the games simon was making mcclane and zeus perform like puppets . it got extremely repetitious and monotonous watching a very bloody and sweaty mcclean accomplish the impossible every five minutes . i kept hoping that the make up department would run out of all of that disgusting blood . i got as tired as they did , but i was not being paid millions and millions of dollars to endure this as willis and jackson were . when the credits finally rolled , i was worn out and ready to leave . it is correctly rated r for massive amounts of blood , gore , and destruction . there was no sex or violence to intrude on this mayhem . this is only for older teenagers i think , but i am sure that kids way too young will see it in droves . i do not recommend the show , but since there was a fair amount in the first half that i liked , i award it * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . reviewed written on : may 26 , 1995 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
casper is the story of an extremely sweet little " living impaired " character , a . k . a . , a ghost . the star of the show and the only reason to see the movie is casper . the special effects by industrial light and magic in this show are just that - special . casper is a sweet character as well . the movie clicked when he was the feature of a scene . the intended to be repulsive other ghosts were that , but they were not particularly interesting or funny . always crude and sometimes scary , but on the whole a disappointment . let me cut to the chase and talk about the fatal flaw in the movie . the script by deanna oliver and sherri stoner relied on sight gags for almost all of the laughs . there were the odd funny words like the quote i opened this review with , but not many . worse , the characters were not developed nor was there any discernible plot . contrast this with et where you cared about every character and the plot raced along . et did not rely on the inherit cuteness of the lead to carry the picture . overall , the script of casper felt too derivative of previous movies like et and the addams family movies . there were even cameo appearances by stars from other films like ghostbusters which enhanced this retread image . because of the script , the middle part of the movie really drags . better editing ( michael kahn ) might have helped enliven the middle section . kahn is an academy award winning editor so perhaps with this script it was hopeless . there is one part of the script that frankly i do not understand . this is a movie aimed at an audience of children and is rated pg . there were kids all over the place when we saw it . given this , what was the purpose in giving the characters dialog that included : " damn " , " hell " , " for christ's sake " , " bitch " , and others ? the lines were not important ones and the characters used these words as if they were innocuous fillers of the pauses in one's speech , i . e . , as if they had no meaning at all . why teach kids this for no purpose ? it certainly did not spice up the show to any extent . the acting was spotty . by the middle of the movie , ricci had come alive and her sweetness was a mirror of casper's . i hope to see ricci in many more movies . my favorite scene of her was the dance sequence at the end . lovely . made you want to relive your teenage years again . cathy moriarty does not seem to know how to play a villain , and her director was of no help to her . the biggest acting disappointment to me was that of an actor whom i am fond , bill pullman . pullman , who was most recently in the excellent movie while you were sleeping , here gives a performance with no life . for a movie with wonderful special effects and which undoubtedly cost a bundle , i was surprised at how low budget looking the sets by academy award winner leslie dilley were . the sets and the overall feel of the show kept making me think of a made for tv movie . only the special effects reminded me that this was a large budget production . it is rated pg and is a harmless movie except for the previously discussed dialog problems . jeffrey , my six year old , got scared during some of the movie , but gave the movie thumbs up . the only scene he did not like was the adult romance scene . he liked the romantic scenes involving the kids . hmm , guess in his mind old fogies like parents should leave romance to the youngsters . unlike jeffrey i can not quite bring myself to recommend casper , but i do award it * * for a great lead and for some magical special effects . maybe casper will be back with a better script next time . i'd like to see him again . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
species is a science fiction movie about an alien from outer space . regardless of the name , this movie is really aliens 4 . the monster looks and acts just like the one from the aliens trilogy . aliens have never looked better than in this movie ! if you realize that you are seeing a film of tv movie quality , you can have fun watching species . overall , it is predictable , but there is enough suspense wondering who sil is going to kill next and watching her trying to pickup men , that the movie keeps your attention . the scenes of her picking up men are alternatively hilarious and scary . the quality , especially of the script ( dennis feldman ) and the directing ( roger donaldson ) , is low . many lines were ridiculous and many of the actions were implausible . how about a single guy with an average sized handgun and with everyone else unarmed ? sure . every time the script started to deal with the duality of sil's being , it backed off . i wish the script would have had the courage to address the problem more fully . the acting was mixed . whitaker was given a one dimensional role and yet he managed to make the most of it . although neither madsen nor helgenberger did much with their main character's purpose , i did like their little romantic subplot , especially the scene were she finally wins him over . it is correctly rated r for scary , gory , and bloody violence , sex , and nudity . it will scare the daylights out of some people so i think it is appropriate only for mature teenagers . i can not bring myself to recommend species to you , but if you do go , you will probably get engrossed in the story as i did and learn to ignore its many flaws . i give the movie * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
let me warn you upfront that as a parent , watching this show was about as enjoyable as having boiling oil poured over my body . non-parents may be able to view the movie more dispassionately and give it higher marks . on the other hand , the people who should probably see kids are parents , especially poor to mediocre ones . having thus been forewarned , let me continue with the review . although the script by harmony korine does not show any of the kids as having positive attributes , it does portray the girls as sort of willing victims . in this movie , the kids were painted in degrees of evil , but the worst were the boys . a set of frightening images all around . the most graphic horror movies are nothing compared to kids . although the filming does not have the hand held camera instability of a documentary , overall , the script and especially the low quality of the acting makes you think you are watching a poor documentary of an extremely important subject . i read the director had the kids ad lib a lot . the picture feels as if they cast them all in a single day on the street and told the kids to just act natural . i suspect it was more organized than that , but it feels pretty amateurish . the depressing and filthy sets add to its documentary feel . you may wish many of the scenes were subtitled . the relative likelihood of the problems were totally out of proportion . kids runs 1 : 30 , and i saw every painful minute of it , but wish i hadn't . there is no way i would let a kid see this show . it is perhaps useful material for adults but could be misinterpreted by kids . on the other hand , most of the people in the audience i was at seemed to be about 18 . i wondered what they thought of it . beside all of the horror mentioned above , it has extreme violence which is treated as nothing by the kids in the movie . so we may have killed someone ; so what . one of the kids , i think casper , sums the kids' philosophy when he says " when you are young , not much matters " . i can not actually recommend this show that makes kafka look like an optimist , but if you do go , you may gain some insights , depressing as the film may be . i award kids * * for risk taking and chilling realism . were i not a parent , perhaps i might have been able to view it more charitably and give another half star or so . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . reviewed written on : august 15 , 1995 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
think of him as the darth vader of directors , and yet , his work is frequently brilliant . his the age of innocence was my second favorite movie of 1993 . scorsese has a talent of which most directors can only dream . like the fbi warnings on the front of video tapes , let me warn all viewers who are incapable or unwilling to see movies with extremely graphic and arguably gratuitously violent scenes , you should pass on this movie . feel free to read the review of course . i will cover the gory aspects at the end when i discuss its ridiculous mere r rating . this means the audience hasn't a clue as to how true or realistic any of this is . i bought some parts , but doubted others . the degree of reality was not a big issue for me in this picture . it turns out all you had to do then to work in a casino was apply for a license , actually getting one was unnecessary . it took ten years to process the application , and so long as you change titles every few years , your application would go to the back to the bottom of the stack thus ensuring that any unsavory past and any mob connections are never discovered . i collected tons of fun trivia about how pit bosses work , how card cheating schemes are detected , etc . to further complicate this picture , we have sharon stone as ginger mckenna . actually most of the movie is told in narration that is periodically interrupted to let the whole cast get a chance to speak . in one scene the action freezes while the actor tells why he is going to chose to say what does . i found this extreme narration approach intriguing , but ultimate tiring . in fact , one of the chief problems with casino is that at about three hours long , it overstays its welcome . the best parts of the movie are the costumes by john dunn ii and rita ryack . ace wears one iridescent suit after another - orange , peach , lime green , cranberry red , salmon , chartreuse , you name it , but always with a contrasting solid colored shirt and tie . to complement this , the violent nicky sticks to dull grays and black outfits with little character . i think the costume designers are a shoe-in at award time . i believe they must have used crazy glue to attach a cigarette to ace's hand since he has one in every scene in the movie . the sets by dante ferretti are fun too - full of solid gold rather than pink flamingos as well as other tributes to the bad guys' bad taste . there is no bad acting in casino . stone plays the most complex role of her career and amazingly is pretty good at it , but i still liked her best in basic instinct . most of her movies have been terrible , but she does have talent in addition to good looks . deniro is one of the best actors alive today , but i found ace to be of his least interesting roles . i got tired of ace after a while . woods has a small but well done role as a wasted loser . pesci was a little too out of control for my taste , but it was a good piece of acting . bad guys will yank pencils out of people's hands and stab them in the throat . you have to endure seeing a man's hand being smashed with a hammer and the sounds of the bones being broken as the bloods gushes out . in the most disturbing of all of the images , men are killed with baseball bats with the sound of large bones snapping and blood flowing everywhere , and then you get to see them buried alive . you can handle that ? great , you are certified to see this film . whether you want to or not of course is another matter . i found myself watching my back in the parking lot when i left the theater ; i had lost a little trust in my fellow man . casino runs a little under three hours , but your seat will feel like it is at least five due to the plodding pace by editor thelma schoonmaker . the movie is rated r by the mpaa which is is a travesty . this movies is clearly nc-17 . i do not think is appropriate for teenagers . actually , with much tighter editing , say an hour less movie and even if they left in all of the gore , i could recommend this movie to adult audiences with strong stomachs . as released , i give it a mild thumbs down and award it * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : december 4 1995 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
kicking and screaming is a good , but too frequently trite movie about the superficiality and meaninglessness of young people's lives today . it is being billed as a droll comedy , but it really isn't . the movie at its best is an insightful satire on young adulthood . i laughed a couple of times , but more often i was either touched by the dialog or just bored . first time writer and director noah baumbach assembled a cast of typical college kid looking actors and actresses . most have been in other shows about generation xers that either i have never seen or that i hated , i . e . , shows like naked in new york or amateurs . none had been in the absolutely wonderful before sunrise which is proof positive that shows about people in their 20s can be both well made and not depressing . one semester skip takes only : ethics , scandinavian literature , and personality . finally , elliott gould , an actor who was never very good , is a complete embarrassment in this movie as grover's dad . weird . the movie has way too many failed attempts at sight gags . baumbach should have concentrated on the dialog which is the high point of the show and given up on the sight gags . baumbach's dialog ranges from the insightful to the bizarre . although the guys and gals hang out a lot , none of them have more than a superficial interest in each other or in life itself for that matter . i found this part of the movie believable but incredibly sad . the kids smoke a lot , and drink all of the time . i am sorry to report that movie seems to say that you can drink scotch and colt 45 malt liquor with one large swig after another , and yet never get mush mouthed , stumble , or have it in any way affect your body or your behavior . since the film is clearly targeted at the 12-29 age groups , it is freighting that this movies trivializes alcoholism so much . most kids in the show have major drinking problems that the picture makes almost invisible . other than the two pieces of terrible acting mentioned previously , the other actors and actresses were good . eric stoltz who needs good direction to be effective got it from baumbach . here he was the best person in the cast . the almost sepia colored photography by steven bernstein and the depressing and lifeless costumes by mary jane fort add to the overall moroseness of the show . it is a technique that works well at focusing the audience's attention on the character's expression . kicking and screaming runs a quick 1 : 34 thanks to editing by julie dole . if you let your teenagers go , go with them if you can and talk about the movie afterwards , especially the drinking , the smoking , and the real reasons for going to college . this could be a good opportunity to open up some communication with them . i found myself touched by the movie , and although baumbach's film showed a lot of potential , too much was unrealized for me to be able to recommend it . i give the movie my average movie rating of * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : november 11 , 1995 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
heat is a action movie of great energy and excellent stunts that masquerades as an epic . the plot can easily be summarized as cat chases mouse , mouse chases cat , and cat and mouse stop to share a cup of coffee . it is an intriguing , but exhausting movie where only two aspects ( bad guys and the stunts ) of the movie work . it is an interesting movie with lots of action so most viewers will leave the theater satisfied and yet it has the potential for much more that it delivers . the action sequence here is impressive and the best part is the sound effects - massive steel on steel impact . shades of the die hard series . detective hanna says , " i've got a lot of angst . i preserve it , i hold it , it keeps me sharp where i've got to me . " you do what you do best and try to catch bad guys like me . " several times during the show mccauley reminds us of his guiding principle , " do not get attached to anything you can not walk out on in thirty seconds flat if the heat comes around the corner . " shakespeare this isn't . the movie has many an exhilarating action scene full of great sound effects especially of assault-weapons . sorry to say that since mann believes he is creating something on the scale of the godfather sagas , he pads the movie with numerous and superfluous family scenes . none of them work . the only point the families seem to serve is to say that both good guys and bad guys have families to distract them and that the families on both sides look and act alike . justine complains to her husband that " i may be stoned on grass and prozac , but you've been walking through my life dead . " the robbers are quite well done . the makeup and the costumes add to their aura of evil . the acting by the robbers is excellent . de niro delivers a strong but controlled performance as do kilmer and voight . pacino , on the other hand , loses control emotionally in almost every scene . the script attempts to compensate by giving him a plethora of expletives for adjectives with which to scare the crooks . now we come to believability . this is where the movie earns its lowest scores . let's take a quiz . if someone is firing a stream of bullets from an assault-weapon into your windshield , would drive keep driving straight into him ? if you are surrounded by hundreds of policemen and you have to fired constantly for many minutes , would you never need to reload ? in this case , would you expect to kill scores of police but get away unscathed yourself ? if you are a cop , would you push a guy through a plate glass window to make him talk ? the music is bland - made up mostly of pseudo-haunting violin melodies . the camera work is good and fast paced in the action sequences , but it has too many hyper close-ups in the family scenes . when pacino's nose covers the entire screen at the local monsterplex , you feel like you are viewing mount rushmore . heat runs ( sometime crawls ) 2 : 51 , but there is really only enough material for two hours . it is correctly rated r as it is full of violence with more deaths that you can hope to count . i do not remember any nudity , but there was a little sex . it is suitable only for mature teenagers . i liked all of the bad guys and the stunts are terrific , but ultimately i have to give the movie a mild thumbs down . it gets * * from me . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : december 21 , 1995 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
a perfect world is really two movies . the main movie is a serious one staring kevin costner and an 8 year old new comer named t . j . lowther . the other movie is a comedy with clint eastwood and laura dern . the comedy takes up a full third of the movie , and it is awful and full of cliches . i am not sure how it got stuck in this picture . my only guess is that they thought the picture would be too downbeat otherwise and might be criticized for glorifying criminals . eastwood and dern should have read the ridiculous script by john lee hancock and refused the roles . since eastwood was also the producer and director , i guess he thought knew what he was doing . going for it , the serious movie has two excellent performance in the title roles . the chemistry costner and lowther is quite effective . going against it , is that the movie , except for the ending , does glorify criminal behavior , and it certainly makes you feel sorry for costner's character since he only murders for reasons he thinks are valid . interesting logic that . finally , why do movies always hold religion in a bad light , but not murdering or stealing ? you are taught in this movie to despise the boy's moma ( jennifer griffin ) because their religion does not allow trick or treating , but you are set up to applaud which he steals a halloween costume because he deserves it . sigh . a perfect world runs 2 : 18 for reasons i can not fathom . this is a little movie and should have a brief running time . the movie is rated pg-13 , but i would have given it an r for its violence and adult themes . i give the movie * * for the two lead performances but can not bring myself to recommend the show . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : january 2 , 1994 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
there are lots of basketball players in it , all about the size of small skyscrapers , who are either corrupt or stupid with the exception of the shaquille o'neal character . easily the best part of this movie is the ending . wrapping up a morality play is tricky - this one does a really nice job of it . it also has a neat epilog that makes you think , incorrectly , for a few minutes , that maybe this was all a true story after all . the movie was directed by william friedkin . friedkin did the highly imaginative and innovative french connection as well as to live and die in la . i loved both of these shows . they are both full of energy and intelligence . there is little visible intelligence in any of the actors or characters in blue chips however . the problem with blue chips is that watching it is like eating a pastry that has been whipped so that it is all air . you ate it , but there was nothing there . it is a very homogenized movie that never offends , yet never seems to be for real either . it gets a pg-13 rating for the typical bad language you hear in any locker room . well , it does insult religion , but most hollywood movies feel that is mandatory these days , so no surprise . there are a lot of good sports movies that have been made . for basketball , go rent hoosiers rather than see this one . i give the movie * * , and do not recommend it . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : february 22 , 1994 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
the plot of the ref has a lot of potential . the good news is that there were many times where the dialog in this black comedy had me laughing out loud . periodically , the director ( ted demme who i think is jonathan demme's brother ) would pick up the pace a la six degrees of separation and the film would really hum . the actors responded very well to the increased pacing and came alive . most of the time , however , the movie would start clicking and then some invisible hand would reach out and grab a lever and slow it down for no apparent reason . the characters would have been better if the script ( richard lagravenese and marie weiss ) were written a bit more sympathetically . i did not care about anyone in the show . well , i guess maybe the thief had some possibilities for likeableness . i read one review that said he thought the show was the funniest comedy he had ever seen , but when he saw it a second time he only barely liked it . he realized later than the first time , the theater was packed and the second time , it was pretty empty . i saw it in a sparsely occupied movie house . i think this show would work better with wall-to-wall people laughing . go saturday at 7pm i guess should be the strategy . the ref runs 1 : 30 and is rated r . if you see this show and love it , i would not be surprised . the dialog had a lot of promise and some big laughs . nevertheless , i thought the pacing was off and the characters were drawn too purely dark . i give it * * and a marginal thumbs down . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
sudden death is a jean claude van damme action film . if you feel like a die hard ii type of movie and are ready to switch your brain to autopilot , this movie will provide an acceptable time at the bijou . sometimes after a hard week at work , you want a little fast paced albeit highly implausible compendium of chases and shoot 'em ups . it's the seventh game of the stanley cup playoffs . think about the title , and you can write most of the rest of the movie yourself without gene quintano's simplistic script . the director ( peter hyams ) has a spartan approach that sticks to action ( read killing ) without much worry about plausibility . i never realized how many ways there are to kill people in a kitchen . the lines are broadly written and sometimes funny . the pacing by editor steven kemper is clean and crisp . this movie is pure escapism and action scenes . think of it as die hard ii crossed with black sunday . if that is what you want , you could worse that sudden death . not particularly original , but funny nevertheless . i find jean claude van damme a strange actor . he does not have the charisma of a steven seagal or the energy of a bruce lee and yet his low key approach to killing bad guys holds a certain fascination no matter how ridiculous . powers boothe is always good as an evil figure and here he gives his standard performance . the best scene of all , and one worthy of a much higher quality movie , is the one where van damme gets to suit up and go on the ice . it is wonderful . it is rated r for massive violence which sometimes makes you squeamish but more often is more cartoonish than anything . after you see scores of people killed with little small bullet holes in the head , it becomes more unreal than frightening . i think the show is acceptable for teenagers if they are mature . i can not bring myself to recommend sudden death , but it did provide a nice diversion albeit a totally forgettable one . i give the film * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
sudden death is a jean claude van damme action film . if you feel like a die hard ii type of movie and are ready to switch your brain to autopilot , this movie will provide an acceptable time at the bijou . sometimes after a hard week at work , you want a little fast paced albeit highly implausible compendium of chases and shoot 'em ups . it's the seventh game of the stanley cup playoffs . think about the title , and you can write most of the rest of the movie yourself without gene quintano's simplistic script . the director ( peter hyams ) has a spartan approach that sticks to action ( read killing ) without much worry about plausibility . i never realized how many ways there are to kill people in a kitchen . the lines are broadly written and sometimes funny . the pacing by editor steven kemper is clean and crisp . this movie is pure escapism and action scenes . think of it as die hard ii crossed with black sunday . if that is what you want , you could worse that sudden death . not particularly original , but funny nevertheless . i find jean claude van damme a strange actor . he does not have the charisma of a steven seagal or the energy of a bruce lee and yet his low key approach to killing bad guys holds a certain fascination no matter how ridiculous . powers boothe is always good as an evil figure and here he gives his standard performance . the best scene of all , and one worthy of a much higher quality movie , is the one where van damme gets to suit up and go on the ice . it is wonderful . it is rated r for massive violence which sometimes makes you squeamish but more often is more cartoonish than anything . after you see scores of people killed with little small bullet holes in the head , it becomes more unreal than frightening . i think the show is acceptable for teenagers if they are mature . i can not bring myself to recommend sudden death , but it did provide a nice diversion albeit a totally forgettable one . i give the film * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
actually the story is nothing more than a thin veneer and a poor one at that over a movie to show off the martial arts talents of jackie chan . now , when you have someone as athletically gifted as chan , viewing his skills in even a ridiculous film is not such a bad idea . he actually does all of his own stunts , and you are likely to sit there and go " oh my god " through most of the show . this guy is physically incredible plus he is handsome and as sweet as can be . that he could shine through this miserable show is certainly a tribute to his considerable skills which are not overrated . i have been told that he has been in much better movies which is certainly plausible , but this is the only movie of his that i have ever seen . as soon as i got in the theater , i sensed the movie was going to be different ; certainly the clientele was different . the audience was mainly teenagers in the baggy clothes that are popular these days . they thought talking to the screen in loud voices was cool . before the feature started i saw trailers for movies of the type i did not know existed . very low budget action films that i had never heard of as well as what used to be called black exploitation movies . and so on and so forth , ad nauseam . the silly script by edgar tang and fibe ma is full of lines that make little sense or are extremely trite , but hey , remember you are here to see chan's action , nothing more and nothing less , and action there is aplenty . there is nothing this guy can't do . actually the best part of the film is chan's demeanor . he looks like a friend of mine named kerman , but chan smiles more than any two people . he looks so sweet and innocent that he might melt if it rains , and yet he has more resilience than superman . quite a contrast between his actions and his deceptive looking naivete and little boy smile . okay , granted that this is an action flick , but why does the dialog have to be so bad , and why couldn't the director ( stanley tong ) find at least one other interesting actor or actress to work with chan ? can't you come down ? " chan is full of simple wisdom like , " don't let the situation change you . change it , " and " if you got the guts , drop the gun , " but mainly he shuts up , smiles , and fights . the sets are imaginative with the bad guys carrying baseball bats but driving something like a golf cart with flashing neon lights . one of the best scenes has an entire building pulled down by the " badest " of the bad guys . the cinematography ( jingle ma ) uses dramatic colors with bold uses of bright purples , pinks , reds , and blues . blood is in most scenes , and the gore content is extremely high . the show is full of pain , and chan gets more than just about anybody , but he keeps on smiling . there is no nudity or sex , but there is some dope smoking and bad language . it is correctly rated r for the massive amount of violence . granted the picture is kind of campy , but it is also very bloody . this show will probably be okay for most teenagers , but the idea of taking kids under 13 to it is just plain stupid . i really liked watching chan's abilities , but after the first thirty minutes , his welcome wore out . i would have liked the show better as a half hour documentary on stunts . as it is , i can not recommend it , but i am giving it * * for an amazing piece of work by chan . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
gosh , what fun we males have . any movie like beautiful girls that frequently uses loud rock music to fill in the gaps in the dialog makes me suspicious . the sometimes insightful , sometimes ridiculous , but highly uneven script by scott rosenberg needed all of the help it could get i guess . let me say upfront that this is not a bad movie overall , and there are many characters in it i liked a lot and wish i could have seen even more of , but too many were caricatures of people i would be happy never to have known . with better editing ( jeffrey wolf ) and directing ( ted demme ) the movie could have survived the script , but alas it was not to be . it's one big conspiracy . trust me . " although it may sound like a lolita role , actually it is quite innocent and realistic of the crush that young girls can form . here the script is at its best , giving her one funny line after another . very poignant . like the guys in the movie , some are interesting and some aren't . i liked her role here better than the one in mighty aphrodite that got her an academy award nomination . you were king of the hill then . " don't i bear some of the blame here ? " a sad , but realistic performance of how some people can become obsessed with others when evidence tells them it is a bad idea . one of the least interesting roles is that of gina barrisano ( rosie o'donnell ) . a typical one is , " you guys , as a gender , will have to get a grip , or the future of the human race is looking down . " at least she manages to say such gibberish with a straight face . in a show where some of the twenty year olds have families , but children are treated as creatures rarely seen or heard . gish doesn't appear until the last part and is mainly wasted in the film . she is a talented actress who does manage to make her little part special . the worst part of the show is the way it treats alcoholism . everyone of the buddies has major alcohol problems as do many of the females , but in the film they drink like fish and yet it rarely affects their actions , speech , or abilities . the message of the movie seems to be that young people drink constantly , but somehow this represents no problem to them or their lives . the insidious message for all of the teenagers who will see this film is that heavy drinking is natural , everybody does it , it is required for proper bonding , and anyway , there are no consequences to worry about . given the stars , the demographics of the audience will be heavily tilted toward those most vulnerable to alcoholism . scary . finally , there are great visuals . it has no sex or nudity but a little violence . it is rated r , and whereas i would like to think the mpaa is punishing the film for its flippant treatment of alcoholism , actually i think it is because there are a couple of uses of the f word in a film mainly of fairly mild language . i would want to talk to teenagers about the dangers of drinking if they do see this show . it is a close call , but i am not recommending the film . some characters were great , namely willie , tracy , marty , and sharon , but the others made me almost ashamed to be a member of the male sex . i do not blame the actors , but i do hold the screenwriter and the director accountable . oh well , there is a lot of potential not quite realized here ; maybe next time . finally , i award the show * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
it is considered by many to be a classic movie and is the first part of director satyajit ray's " apu trilogy . " the movie has a lot going for it , not the least of which is extremely earnest and heartfelt performances by all of the cast . in its depiction of abject poverty it reminded me somewhat of king vidor's our daily bread ( 1934 ) and john ford's the grapes of wrath ( 1940 ) . i am sorry to report that , being one of the slowest films i have ever seen , i did not like pather panchali . sincerity is not enough for me ; i like a movie where something happens . at first i had trouble figuring out what was going on since not much of anything was happening so i figured i was missing something . after a while it dawned on me that pather panchali is a slice of life movie , but one at a glacial pace . the director gets lots of long sequences of people looking pensively . the movie works best in the scenes of everyday life . most of the movie consists of incidents like durga stealing fruit from the old family orchard that used to belong to them . pather panchali may be an acquired taste . certainly the acting is straight forward and earnest , but not much actually happens in the film and what does happen happens so slowly . i think tighter editing ( dulal dutta ) and a more energetic script ( bibhutibhushan bandyopadhyay and satyajit ray ) would have kept my attention better . finally , for me the best part of the picture is the music by ravi shankar who was then an unknown musician . it is sublime . pather panchali runs 1 : 55 , but i think it would have been much more effective at about 1 : 25 . the picture is filmed in black and white and the print i saw was in acceptable shape , but showed its age . the film is in bengali with english subtitles . it is not rated , but would certainly be rated g . there is exactly one mildly harsh word in it , and there is no sex , nudity , or violence . the movie would be fine for children of any age , but the slowness would lose most of the young ones . i admire the sincerity of the film , but i can not recommend it no matter how much of a classic it is . it is unmercifully slow . for its sweetness i give * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
the original the land before time is an excellent and delightful dinosaur adventure tale . this version tells a pleasant little story of no real consequence , but as a lightweight fable for kids , it works fairly well . if you want a compelling story , you should go for the original . even the second sequel , land before time iii : the time of the great giving , has a better developed script . at least in the first sequel you can escape the pedantic lectures about saving the environment that you have to endure in the second sequel . precious is the only way to describe them . they are mildly bad guys with british accents who get scared by shadows , literally . other than some t-rexs that make an appearance at the end , there is nothing to put tension into the minimalist plot . what the show consists of is the everyday antics of a bunch of kids , albeit dinosaur kids . once they say the words " sinking sand " , any viewer can write the next few scenes . of all of the animation ( nelson shin ) , the drawing of chomper is the most imaginative , and he is clearly the star of the show . he is drawn with a small body but a head so large he can hardly hold it up and walking is tricky even with his gigantic feet . a real scene stealer of a character . it is rated g since absolutely nothing offensive happens . in fact , not much happens at all in the show , but given target audience of young kids and given how much fun it is watching these characters frolic about , perhaps that is enough . for my taste , i can not recommend land before time ii , and it just barely gets * * in my book . i liked land before time iii a little better and land before time a lot better , and the only one in the series i recommend is the original land before time . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
the original the land before time is an involving , magical , and beautiful tale . this version is a sweet and harmless little story that will delight kids who are into the series , but the underdeveloped and formulaic story line will disappoint adult viewers . every time ducky delivers her canonical , " yep , yep , yep " response , a warmth goes through my whole body . these are the sort of animal characters that kids and adults of all ages can cherish . unlike the original of the series , which had the quite scary t-rex called sharptooth , this version has only a group of young bullies lead by hip . hip and his band and some mildly mean dinosaurs that appear at the end are weak villains , hence the show lacks any genuine tension . from the beginning it just meanders to a quick and fairly uneventful ending . hip declares , " when you're big . all the rules that grownups make don't apply to you , " and other such tough guy mottoes . true enough , but like most lines in the show , it is too stilted . the show ends before it ever gets started , and the narrator pedantically explains the message of the movie to us in case we missed it , telling us that the dinosaurs , " each learned the special kind of joy which comes from giving to others . " land before time iii runs 1 : 11 which is plenty of time given that not much happens . since what does happen is totally innocent with no real villains and very mild , non-scary violence , it justly gets a g rating . there is no sex or bad language . a kid of any age could see the film , and if they liked the others in the series , they will probably enjoy this one albeit probably not as much . i can not recommend the picture , but for the wholesome and lovable characters in search of a script and for wonderful , soothing , theme music ( james horner ) , i do give it * * , which may be a bit on the generous side . on the other hand , i love that " yep , yep , yep " line . you have to hear it to understand its appeal . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
the way to view this picture is to think of the discovery channel nature documentaries . now imagine that someone combines various pieces of film stock so that a story begins to emerge . actually , most of the scenes are set up , but they seem more nature than in a lot of animal pictures . so what is the plot you ask ? this is a slice of animal life picture . there is not much plot other than the animals play and slowly grow up . the cinematography by hideo fujii and shinji tomita is lovely . the music by ryuichi sakamoto is effusive . the music helps in the scenes that have potentially frightening aspects like the scene with the bear because they switch to a happy melody like you might hear at a circus . the best part about the film is its star . milo is a wonderfully inquisitive kitty with large and expressive eyes . the only problem with the show is that there is almost nothing there . granted this is a film aimed at the younger set , say ages 3-6 , but still i would have hoped for more . the film is correctly rated g and nothing offensive occurs . the movie would be fine for kids of any age . although i can not recommend it , my son jeffrey ( almost 7 ) said he liked it . i give * * for its undeniable sweetness . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
the story has two distinct parts . the movie starts like the older disney movies do . there is a long title sequence with slow music and no action , but the ending has no credits at all , just the words , " the end . " my son was eager for me to hit fast forward during the opening credits . how movies have changed . this is handled so low key that youngsters will probably not even realize it happened . this part , which is actually over half of the elapsed time , is the main problem with the film . they forget only one item ; they forget to give the characters anything to do . there is no tension in the long first part and almost nothing happens . the writers invent wonderful characters and then run out of ideas . what a waste . in the shorter concluding part , big mama warns tod about the fully grown hunting dog copper , " listen good tod , it's either education or elimination . " the ending to the show is completely predictable , but this is a kid's show afterall . the drawing ( daniela bielecka , david block , and phil nibbelink ) is beautifully realistic with bright and lively colors . granted , this is not art on par with the lion king , but it is impressive in its own right . the music ( buddy baker ) is pleasant , but the songs are poor and totally forgettable . the fox and the hound runs 1 : 23 which is too long given the dearth of ideas in the script . it is rated g , but there are some scenes that have the potential to scare kids under say 5 . my son jeffrey ( almost 7 ) saw the movie for the first time with me and he liked it . there is not enough here for me to recommend the film , but i did like all of the characters so i am giving the film * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
french twist ( gazon maudit ) is a farcical romantic comedy with a strong sexual content . it is a french film that was a smash hit when it was released there . the failing of the picture is that there are three likable characters and actors in search of a decent script , and director too for that matter . the kids are adorable and sweet as can be , and their parents either ignore them or get irritated at them , but then again , this is a film about a couple who doesn't pay enough attention to their kids to deserve them . forty year old marijo has the looks of a fullback and is so harsh at first that it seems she is trying to turn off the audience . he and his obnoxious male buddy sit around during this part of the show and mouth homophobic cliches . as well constructed and well acted as the characters are , the script by patrick aubree and josiane balasko , based on a story by telshe boorman , is a mess . the minor character need development , there is no discernible plot , and there are many needless scenes . the director is of no help in sorting out the plot for the actors , and they seem aimless most of the time . french twist runs 1 : 45 and would be better if was trimmer . the movie is in french with english subtitles . the film is correctly rated r for a little violence , lots of quite natural nudity , some sex , several scenes of dope smoking , and filthy language in every other sentence . large numbers of bad words are usually a giveaway that the writer is out of ideas . french twist is a movie that grows on you . unfortunately , it did not grow on me quite enough for me to recommend it . i did like the three main actors , and i hope to see all of them again but with a better script so i am giving the film * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
don't get me wrong , this is not a literal remake , but if you try to count the number of similarities , you will soon lose track . this is not an easy question to answer . " the speech felt like it was lifted straight from hugh grant's wedding speech in four weddings and a funeral . this is one derivative show from beginning to end . well , many of them are replayed here , but not as well . the problem with the pallbearer has nothing to do with the casting or the acting . most of the acting , with the exception of the poor performance by hershey , is fine . the show is kept at the superficial level . there is not a character that is real or that you care about . now , strictly as escapist entertainment , it almost works . certainly there are many big laughs in the show , but i left the movie feeling a bit cheated and unsatisfied . the film just does not realize its potential . the pallbearer runs too long at 1 : 46 . it is rated pg-13 , but it is a mild pg-13 . there is no sex , nudity , or violence , and the language is pretty tame . it would be fine for kids over 9 although i suspect , given the subject matter , it might be more appropriate for those over 12 . several big laughs were not enough to get me to recommend this retread , but i am giving it * * for the laughs and for david schwimmer's performance . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
costa brava is a sweet lesbian love story . it is a low budget picture that was shot on donated film in just fourteen days . although the name costa brava might lead you to believe that the film is in a foreign language , actually , every word of this film , set in barcelona and on the costa brava , is in english . large portions of the movie have her on her rooftop trying out various versions of her pretty awful monologue to her video camera . these scenes are funny at first , but after the fifth time , i had enough . repetition does not make the heart grow fond . the script by marta balletbo-coll and ana simon cerezo is simple and lighthearted with some good lines . they label me nuts . montserrat's striking good looks are in contrast to the chunkier anna's average appearance . the chemistry between them is partially believable . i thought balletbo-coll goes for the laughs too often and ignores the relationship part , but the humor is good . one of anna's better lines has her commenting about montserrat that , " whenever she's upset , she wants to make love , but whenever i'm upset , i want to have pizza . " del valle , on the other hand , is the better of the two actresses . she is uncomfortable with the lesbian label , telling anna , " i'm not a lesbian just because i want to sleep with you . " the glue that keeps the plot together is anna's play which is overemphasized . i liked both of the main actresses in this two person story , but the script lacked much substance . yes , the laughs are there , but the characters are more outlined that they are brought to life . actress and director marta balletbo-coll , should stick to acting . the movie is adrift too often . it needed firmer control . as a brief and insubstantial tone poem , it almost works , but the inherent charm of the leads is not enough to carry the picture . the music by miguel amor , emil remolins casas , xavier martorell , and ikal sena is happy and carefree setting just the right mood . the cinematography by teo lopez garcia and the editing by ignacio perez de olaguer cordoba is way too amateurish . i got so tired of them switching to a section of the fish net on anna's wall when they needed a scene transition . why that fish net , and why twenty times ? it is not rated , but since there is no sex , nudity , violence or bad language , my guess is that would have gotten a pg-13 for sexual situations . it would be fine for any kids interested in the subject . although my favorite lesbian love story remains desert hearts , i did like this one some , but not quite enough to recommend it . a little more substance and character development , and i could have . finally , i give the film * * and hope to see both actresses again , but with more polished material and a better director . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : may 6 , 1996 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
although i was a teenager in the 60s , i do not remember her at all . i thought i knew of all the rock groups from that period , and i do not recall them or her . oh well , memory fads . now , knowing nothing about a subject is actually the preferable state for viewing a documentary . late last year i saw a great documentary called theremin : an electronic odyssey . before seeing it , i had never heard of a crazy little musical device called a theremin . nevertheless , i loved the documentary while hating the screechy sounds that bizarre gadget produces . on the good side , the film is an honest depiction of a person devoid of humanity , and it teaches us what can happen in such circumstances . i like being confined . i like being locked in a closet . " she sang one of the morose songs she wrote which went , " make me fly , let me die , make me fly . " her songs have little feeling or musical interest . although she appeared in such films as la dolce vita and chelsea girls , i would not go so far as to say she acted in any of them based on the clips shown . the documentary is effective at illustrating loneliness and what it can do to a person's spirit . on the bad side , as a documentary , this picture is a mess . it never presents a compelling case of why we should care about nico . moreover , the filmmaker has a leaden approach . sometimes loud music ( mark mothersbaugh ) overlays the interview for emphasis . other times , the editors ( elfe brandenburger and guido krajewski ) will overlap videos and still images in a failed attempt to pump energy into a film that glorifies lifelessness . i did learn a lot about someone i had never known , and although it is sad , i wish ofteringer had made a much better case as to the point of the film . it is not rated , but i would guess it would get an r for all of the drug references . there is brief nudity , but no sex or violence , and i the language is pretty clean . it would be fine for any teenager . although i found parts interesting , the documentary is so poorly developed that i can not quite bring myself to recommend it . if you are one of those people who remember her , you will probably like the film more than i did . i give the movie * * for the insights i did gain . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : may 8 , 1996 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
whereas the original stuck to formula laughs with one slapstick gag after another , the sequel turns its attention to character development and to the subject of love . although still not memorable entertainment , it is much better than the first . beethoven successfully hits it off with missy , and the result is four of the sweetest little puppies ( moe , chubby , dolly , and tchaikovsky ) you have ever seen . ryce enters what appears to be a sweet romance and gets her first kiss in a touching scene . later in the film , we have an uncalled-for sequence about underage drinking and the beginnings of date rape . this has no place in a sweet little nostalgic picture about love and puppies . my childhood was just like that so this struck a chord with me . again , i can remember so well the sinking feeling of being rejected for a date . did she really already have a date for that night or was she just saying it so that you would go away ? even little emily comes alive in the sequel . bonnie hunt's part as the mother is better drawn too than the first , and hunt is more animated . only charles grodin manages to give just as dismal a performance in the sequel as in the original . this great comedic genius sleepwalks through both films . as in the original , the cinematography ( bill butler ) and the sets ( lawrence miller ) are middle town america at its best . a dreamy and nostalgic feeling . there are lots of nice images , my favorites being one with a pup on george's head and one of a puppy on a skateboard . my favorite part of the picture is the ending , especially the dream sequence and the " earthquake " scene . i am not giving anything away by telling you this , but when you see the show , you will recognize them based on the above description . it is rated pg . this is no sex , nudity or violence . the movie is fine for kids of any age although i do wish they had deleted the above mentioned scenes . i liked this one a lot more than the first , but not quite enough to recommend it . i give it * * for its sweetness , but i wish it would have had more substance . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
english director kenneth loach's last film was the brilliant and powerful but hard to watch ladybird , ladybird . you never see franco's forces , but somehow the picture conveys the feeling that they must have been much better off since after all at least they have fancy uniforms and a real chain of command . soon however the militia and the film bogs down in talkfests as thick as molasses . this infuriates david . the script by jim allen gets so wordy that you feel like screaming " enough already , back to the story . " a little of this infighting is fascinating ; extremely long scene after scene of it is not . the acting by ian heart is quite good . the historical perspectives the film provides from the inside of the militia is fascinating , but the picture drags incredibly through its long middle . it needed much stronger editing than jonathan morris provided . land and freedom runs 1 : 49 , but should have been shorter and more focused . it is in english and spanish with english subtitles . it is not rated , but would probably be rated r . there is no sex , no nudity , a couple of uses of the f word , and only mild violence considering this is a war picture . it would be fine for any teenager . i liked a lot of the picture , but the long , slow , and pedantic middle was too much for me to be able to recommend it . i do give it * * for many good parts . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
the aristocats ( 1970 ) is a disney animated film by director wolfgang reitherman . the plot of the movie is quite simple . the film is a musical , but the numbers , while pleasant enough , are not at all memorable . the dialog has few good lines and these typically come from the sage o'malley . the animation is not up to the disney standards of today , but does have interest . the characters are animated against a flat background without realistic lighting . this is not a problem since the backdrops are artistic ones as befits a movie set in and near paris . there are several nice visuals . my favorites is when the geese tell the cats to " think goose " and force them to all waddle like geese in a line behind them . having cats waddling like geese is a sight gag that works . the other part of the movie is a love story between o'malley and duchess . this is sweet and low key . the ending is full of the psychedelic images from the late 60s when the film was made . it is rated g , and there is nothing to offend or scare anyone of any age . although this is a pleasant little film , it is never compelling . nice safe homogenous entertainment . a safe choice at the video store if not a very involving one . although my son jeffrey ( age 7 ) liked it when he saw it for the first time tonight , i can not quite bring myself to recommend it . i do give it * * for its pleasantries . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
the monster ( il mostro ) is an italian sexual farce staring roberto benigni as loris . benigni is being hailed as italy's charlie chaplin . to me the monster is like an old jerry lewis movie , but more bawdy . if you like heavy physical comedy with lots of slapstick humor and plenty of sight gags , then this is your show . the movie has many subplots . he does the chinese with exaggerated italian hand gestures and bizarre sing-sing chinese intonations . as an example of the humor from the trailer and one that my audience was in riotous laugher over , loris bumps into a guy with a lit cigarette . at first he does not notice it as he is ogling an attractive blonde . the woman behind me was in uncontrollable laughter at this point . most of the humor is of scenes that look sexual , but aren't . for such a risque show , there is nothing actually shown . all of the sequences that looks like sex , is stuff that is misinterpreted as sex by one of the other characters , and all of the nudity is not shown but is described by one of the other characters . the most that is shown is some not particularly revealing lingerie that jessica wears . i never laughed a single time in the entire show , and i saw every minute of it . half of my audience was as silent as i was , and the other half could barely ever shut up . i do not like humor that relies solely on the physical . the script by roberto benigni and vincenzo cerami has little dialog of merit , and the director and star roberto benigni relied upon his skits to carry the film . i did not care for benigni , but did like the work of nicoletta braschi . she was much more human . i should point out that the ending is the best part so hang in there until the last if you can . the monster runs 1 : 52 , which was too long and repetitive for me . it is in italian with english subtitles . the film is not rated , but would probably get an r for all the explicit sexual references and language . there is no sex , nudity , or violence . the film would be fine for any teenager . although i can not recommend the film and did not like it , i think it is well made if you like jerry lewis style comedies and so i give it * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : may 16 , 1996 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
someone else's america is a good natured , but plotless show about the plight of illegal immigrants in america today . although it shows a lot of potential , little of it is realized , and the show operates in a narrow range . the acting is earnest , but monochromatic , and i did not find any of the characters believable . the characters are certainly charming and energetic , but they are not real . nevertheless , through all of their hardships , their resolve shines through . to show his courage against these difficulties , bayo says , " did i ever tell you the story of my people ? we no surrender . " alonso is more of a worry wart . this is the place where if you work hard , and you worry . you can be anything you want . " the cinematography by george arvanitis is generally unimaginative except for the outdoor scenes where he creates carefully contrived images . the best , and only truly moving scene in the film , happens on the rio grande , and the photography adds to its effectiveness . the script by gordan mihic and the pace set by director goran paskaljevic meanders . with a show where little happens , there needs to be more tension and more character development , but they rely too much on props to carry the picture along . except for an interesting and unusual minor character who played a texas good old boy who helps the immigrants across the border , i thought the cast's acting was acceptable but no better . i like the idea of the story , but not this execution . tom conti is an actor that can be excellent as he was in reuben , reuben and shirley valentine , but generally seems to deliver performances without any depth as he does here . it is rated r , but there is no nudity , no violence , little bad language , and only the start of sex . i would have given it a pg-13 , and it would be fine for any kid over 10 . as a gentle demonstration of the melting pot still in action , the show works , but overall , there is not enough for me to recommend it . i give it * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : may 20 , 1996 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
it overflows with overly droll english comedy . although there are some nice lines in the film , i suspect that unless you are a fan of this genre of british comedy you may be as unmoved as i was . for people who like bbc tv shows like " to the manor born " , this may be just your cup of tea , but for me , i need more than overdrawn bizarre characters with thick accents to like a show . although i found some of the script by malcolm bradbury and stella gibbons interesting , i did not laugh once . not a good sign for a comedy . the large audience i was in laughed a lot during the physical comedy like the mass twitching heads scene , but generally was pretty silent for a comedy . i started to say they laughed during the really stupid parts , but decided that was too much of a value judgment , but notice like a good lawyer , i managed to say it anyway . let me say right now that her acting is the bright shining star in this dismal film . the farm looks like a sixteenth century farm that has been neglected . he refuses modern implements like cloths or sponges . i did not like sheila burrell at all in this role save her good scene at the end . as she puts it , " nature's all very well in her place , but there's no reason to be untidy . " one of my favorite minor characters appears in my least favorite scene . like the apostles of old , i'll go about the land . " in this same religious vein , a character named charles observes , " we are all purified by suffering . " the film is a cornucopia of strange characters . it's red meat time in the movies . " there is even a takeoff on the ending of gone with the wind , which i think is the funniest scene in the show . the sweet ending of the picture is well done and a bit of a surprise . finally , if you wonder , like me , where you saw maria miles who plays elfine starkadder before , she played anna in kafka , but i think i have must have seen in other things as well . cold comfort farm runs 1 : 44 , but i would have been preferred a lot less . it is not subtitled , but the extremely thick sussex accents are frequently unintelligible . i've been to sussex several times , and i though i was fluent in the language . the film is rated pg-13 . there is some sex , no nudity , no violence , and fairly mild language . i think the show would be fine for kids over say 9 or 10 . if you like this brand of droll english comedy of manners , then you may like the show , but i did not so i can not recommend it . i give it * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : may 30 , 1996 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
last year there was a much better documentary called unzipped that focused in on the marvelous and naturally funny fashion designer isaac mizrahi . it even includes some scenes with mizrahi . cinematographer robert leacock takes his first stab at directing , and his inexperience shows . his approach to directing is just to shoot a lot of film and then assemble it later in the cutting room . this movie has no visible construction and is merely an assemblage of random pieces of film . on the good side , if you can ignore the amateurism documentary style , the fashion industry is always a weird and fascinating world to visit . if these names do not mean a lot to you , perhaps you don't subscribe to the right magazines . although i saw unzipped as well as every episode of " the house of eliott , " i found i learned some from watching catwalk . most of all , i found out how divorced from reality these people seem to be . remember they are selling clothes , which is something we all purchase and wear , but most of their collections seem destined for some other planet . to be fair , a few of the gowns are quite lovely , but most are not , and the makeup and hairdos these models are forced to wear are frequently atrocious . it had roughly the shape of a pagoda and had enough hairspray on it to withstand a hurricane force wind . the documentary was done by letting the camera roll and recording what happened . there is no narration nor any attempt at a theme . given they kept an uninteresting sequence where the camera was dropped , and we toured the floor , perhaps there was no editing , just splicing . unless you follow the fashion world closely , you will probably be just as confused as i was as to who was who , and what they were talking about . sometimes the camera would start rolling in the middle of a conversation , and without the context what they were saying little sense . if you've ever wondered what is the value in a million dollar model , the movie answers the question . valentino says , " you can't always tell at a good collection what a model does , but you sure can at a bad one . you put a gunnysack or galoshes on naomi , and you understand why a model gets paid . " in sharp contrast to the models , the fashion designers who come on stage at the end of the unveiling of their collections are almost always poorly dressed . it is almost as if they are trying to look like slobs to show their independence of the fashion industry that makes them so wealthy . in some of the scenes the designers reflect on other designers . in other scenes , the models reflect on themselves . that is why we are so smart . " this film showed no evidence of this occurring . most of the models seemed to be on a constant lark without a care or a thought in the world . since the show is mainly visuals with snippets of conversation , it forces you to look at the models more and listen to the music . they all had big lips , big eyes , ultrasmooth skin , thin shapes , and small noses . this reminded me of the recent newsweek article on the " science of beauty . " finally , the music was heavy on the classical like beethoven's ode to joy so i found this part quite pleasurable . the runway scenes are in color , but the rest of the film is shot in low contrast black and white . it is not rated but would probably get an r rating for its couple of uses of the f word . actually , it is a film with very brief nudity , no sex , no violence , and mainly very mild language so i think kids as young as 10 could go . the most offensive thing to me was the models' constant smoking . although i enjoyed the show , the poor quality of the production is too much of an annoyance for me to be able to recommend it . i give it * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : june 1 , 1996 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
dragonheart is a live action sword-and-sorcery fable set in " ad 984 . " it features a large and fascinating dragon that is apparently created with animatronics . the technical aspects of the show are the best part . watching the fluid movements of the dragon is amazing . notice especially how realistic his teeth are . sad to say , that there is not much else worthwhile in the picture . don't get me wrong . this is not a bad film ; it is just a disappointing one . although i am a fan of connery's , i thought his voice added little . this varies from realistic stabbings to a few very bloody scenes . most of the blood is at the beginning . i thought jeffrey ( age 7 ) was going to force us to leave . he was so upset he could not look at the screen . he whispered to me , " why do they have all of this blood ? " why indeed ? this is a kids' show and the realistic blood with the gaping wound had no place in it . other than to scare the wits out of its intended audience , there is no reason for it . yes , the film is rated pg-13 so we were fully warned , but still it is not necessary and adds nothing to the picture . i must admit that not being a sword-and-sorcery fan , i had trouble believing that a knight equipped only with a sword could kill dragons that are two stories tall , that can fly , that have a tail that can crush buildings in a single blow , that can shoot fire for hundreds of yards and that have a jaw big enough to eat a man in a single bite . check your brain at the door . pete postlethwaite gives a fun minor performance as the monk gilbert . gilbert is always composing verse on the fly , and his dialog is quite funny . actually my favorite line in the script by charles edward pogue is one of draco's . bowen insists that draco has done it before , but in a take off on our president's " i didn't inhale " line , draco says , " i mainly chewed in self-defense . i didn't swallow . " the script and the direction ( rob cohen ) drags a lot . it gets way too wordy at times . the cinematography ( david eggby ) is lush and the sets ( benjamin fernandez ) are visually interesting . the costumes ( anna shepherd ) , especially those of the female dragon slayer , reminded me of caricatures of bad wagnerian opera costumes from the turn of the century . i half expected someone to start singing the ride of valkyries . the ending is well done . notice the pupils in bowen's eyes at the end . they capture the magic of the show quite well . it is rated pg-13 for way too realistic violence . there is no sex , nudity , or bad language . my son jeffrey says he loved the show , but that kids should be at least 6 to see it . once was once too many for me . i give it a mild thumbs down and generously award it * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
probably everyone has had the puppy love stage when you kissed a girl or a boy and then lost touch with them only to wonder later what has happened to them and what would have come of the romance if it had been allowed to blossom . i will tell you a bit more of the story shortly , but let me stop right here and say the only reason to see this film is for its visual impact . the story itself is so insubstantial that if you think about it for a moment , it will disappear . moreover , the director's pacing can be summarized as nothing much happens , but it happens slowly . don't get me wrong , you can make lightweight films worth seeing . perhaps the best recent example was sirens , but in stealing beauty there is nothing compelling to involve the audience . the audience becomes little more than voyeurs in stealing beauty , and the actors seem strangely disconnected from the characters they are playing . back to what is right about the film . tuscany has never looked so lovely . in fact , bertolucci went out of the way to make it even more magnificent . moreover , bertolucci wanted the sets " to create a contrast to the lightness of the story by using heavy colors , deep reds , blues , burnt oranges . " most scenes , even the meals , are filmed outdoors for maximum effect . if you are not blown away by the images , get an immediate appointment at your optometrist . the opening scene is shot in dizzying swirls so that you are immediately engulfed in the radiance of the film . returning to the story itself , we have a tale set in italy of a bunch of friends , lots and lots of friends . the show seems to be about sexuality , if indeed it is about anything at all , but to me it is no more than a tone poem to triviality . i lost track of how many times lucy came upon others making love loudly and in easy view of anyone walking by . the acting and the music ( richard hartley ) is as trivial as the script ( susan minot based on the story by bernardo bertolucci ) . the music is full of dreamy little jazz numbers that have an overall numbing effect . finally , the film does have a small mystery in it , but it is easily solvable and plays only a small part in the plot . stealing beauty runs too long at 1 : 56 . the picture is mainly in english although a bit of it is in italian and french with english subtitles . the picture is rated r for full frontal male and female nudity , sex , drug usage , and some bad language . there is no violence . i would only let teenagers go if they are mature and if they understand the dangers of drug usage , no matter how cool this film makes it seem . i enjoyed the gorgeous look of the picture , but i left feeling cheated since there is no substance . i give the film a mild thumbs down and rate it * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
the neon bible is a innovative film by terence davies , who did the acclaimed distant voices , still lives . the neon bible has a highly confusing narrative but with much technical brilliance underneath . it is a hard picture to describe since it is a collage of images from a boy's past . the movie is shown in flashbacks . the acting is passable . rowlands is the best of the lot , but below average for her . scarwid is over the top and not believable . my biggest problem is with tierney who approaches the character of david with such detachment . rarely does he waste time showing any emotion and yet , this is david's life we are seeing so you would expect more animation . quite a boring performance . many scenes have little or no dialog . it is the sort of show that has you staring for a long time trying to figure out where the show is going and why . i did not know the show's length and actually thought it was ending after half an hour . after one hour into the show , the picture begins to make some sense , but never comes together . at the end , i found myself thinking what a mess , but yet there are many magical and special parts of this disappointing movie . let's not waste any more time on what is wrong with the neon bible . there are technical aspects so special that were they in a better film , they could have been spectacular . let me cite just three examples . second , the scene transitions frequently start high up , like in the stars , and then move down slowly into the scene like a memory might start in your subconscious and then slowly form . editor charles rees deserves some of the credit too for the magical transitions . in the press kit , davies discusses the look of the film . i especially liked the nehi drink signs on the stores . you could get one of those for a nickel and for fifteen cents more you could have a hamburger too . the dialog , when there is any , does have a few good lines . they used to say in school , 'you have to think for yourself , ' but you couldn't do that in town . you have to think what your father thought and that was what everybody thought . " i will be happy if someday writers describing the south of that era will not feel obligated to include a ku klux klan scene as this one did . i grew up in the south just after this time , and i never saw a kkk rally in my entire life , and i don't know anybody that ever has . yes , they happened , but they were fairly rare . writers should not feel obliged to include them , especially as the scene here is superfluous to the story . the neon bible runs 1 : 31 . i do not believe film is rated . there is no sex , nudity , or bad language that i can remember . there is a mild amount of violence . except for a single brief violent scene , it would probably get a pg rating . as it stands , i think it is pg-13 material . the show will bore most kids , but any kid over say 8 or 9 should be able to watch it . i sat there with my mouth agape in most of the show so i certainly can not recommend it , but for its technical brilliance i do give it * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : june 29 , 1996 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
last year's it takes two is yet another cinematic retelling of mark twain's " the prince and the pauper . " since it is such a sweet and classic tale , it is a natural for producers looking for a safe film . roger's butler vincenzo ( philip bosco ) does not like clarice either . although the script by deborah dean davis and jeff schecter is pedestrian , it does have its good lines . there is little original in the film . most scenes you have seen countless times before . i thought everyone had gotten tired of seeing them by now . the acting is perfectly acceptable with no outstanding good or bad performances . the movie takes no risks , but for kids wanting a fun little show and for parents wanting something non-offensive , it takes two fills the bill . if you rent it with suitably low expectations , you may be surprised by it . i should point out that this is director andy tennant's first foray into directing theatrical movies . he has done four made-for-tv movies , but probably the only one you have heard of is the amy fisher story which bears no resemblance to this show . it is rated pg because they used a few mild swear words to keep the film from getting the dreaded g rating . producers believe that g ratings mean less take at the box office . there is no violence , sex , or nudity . you could let kids of any age see this show as there is nothing to offend . he liked it , but there isn't enough there for me to recommend it . i do give the film * * for its sweetness , but i wish the filmmakers had taken some risks and come up with a more involving show . wholesomeness is just not enough . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
walking and talking is another one of those talkfest shows . with the right script these can be among the most enjoyable and rewarding of any cinematic experience . from my dinner with andre to diner to before sunrise , this is a genre of which i have always been especially fond . thanks to an energetic cast this movie tries hard and almost delivers . sad to say that the directing and writing by nicole holofcener is not of the same caliber . this is not a bad show just a disappointing one . it is one that keeps your attention and never drags . the show is so completely natural that it borders on amateurishness at times . the actors are all good , and it is an ensemble cast , but , on the whole , the show promises more than it delivers . the script is just not intelligent enough , and there are no memorable lines . i like the characters and the acting , but there is just not quite enough there . it is rated r . there is more bad language than there needs to be , and there is a single brief drug scene . there is no sex , nudity , or violence . even the skinny-dipping scene is done with their underwear on . the show would be fine for any teenager . it is a marginal call , but there is not enough substance for me to be able to recommend it . i give it * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
although there are shades of close encounters of the third kind , phenomenon is mainly forrest gump-lite . as you can tell , i was extremely disappointed by this show which managed to bore me silly no matter how well intentioned the plot and how earnest the acting . he becomes fluent in portuguese in 20 minutes just by reading a book . mainly he applies it to ways to grow bigger vegetables . now , in the real world , this would certainly be a worthy endeavor as schools from texas a & m to the university of california at davis would attest . as stimulating movie making , it left my entire family bored , fidgeting in our seats , and checking our watches . the script by gerald di pego has lines that includes george's come on to lace of , " i'd like to get my hands on your carburetor , " and lace's refusal to george of , " your idle's too fast . " my main fault with the dialog is not so much that it is trite as it is tedious . the direction by jon turteltaub ( 3 ninjas and cool runnings ) has a glacial pace . although the normally excellent forest whitaker as george's friend nate pope is not given much to do in the show , the only bad acting is sedgwick's . sedgwick has a highly limited acting range . if she has ever given a decent performance , i have not seen it , and i have had the poor fortune to have viewed her in many a picture . travolta clearly had great fun making this film . although he does not demonstrate particularly strong acting , his enthusiasm for the role radiates good vibes . if the show were not so dull , his portrayal would have made the film into a classic feel good movie . the gem of the show and the best piece of acting is done by robert duvall as the local town doc . the rest of the actors operate only on an ethereal plane . the movie is never involving and is content to be nothing more than a paean to the sweetness of a man blessed with a magical gift . i will give it this . phedon papamichael's warm and glowing cinematography is lovely . phenomenon runs quite long at 2 : 03 . tighter editing by bruce green could have improved the show dramatically . the show is rated pg , but i think pg-13 would have been much more appropriate . there are a plethora of cuss words , and none are necessary . although the f word is not used , most of the others are . do we really have to have jesus christ used as a frequent expletive in a pg show ? there is no sex , nudity , or violence . i would caution parents not to take kids under say 10 . he was bored stiff as little happened for long periods of time , and he rated it " so-so . " i liked some of the acting , but can not recommend it either . i give it * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
second time director arne glimcher ( the mambo kings ) in 1995 decided to make a movie , just cause , that looks like a combination of silence of the lambs , dead man walking , and shaft . it is the least subtle movie i have seen in a long time . populated with cliched characters and fast paced , it does entertain , but it demands a high tolerance for unbelievability . there is that old suspension of disbelief problem . in the hannibal lecter role , harris give either a brilliant or an excessively ridiculous performance . you choose . one could make an argument either way . in another implausible role , we have kate capshaw as armstrong's wife laurie . capshaw is totally unconvincing , and this link between the two cases is a silly plot device . so what is good about this absurd show ? several things actually . sean connery is a fascinating and compelling actor . here he gives an excellent performance in a ridiculous movie . fishburne ( what's love got to do with it ) manages to take a bunch of stupid lines and somehow make them worth hearing . his screen presence is amazing . ultimately , i even liked harris as the uncontrollable psychopath . editor william anderson keeps the movie going at a lightning pace . the sounds of the swamp are menacing , and the gators are ready to chop off legs in a flash . eerie . although the script by peter stone and jeb stuart based on the novel by john katzenbach has all of the delicacy of a meat cleaver and seems incapable of surprise , the show takes a sharp turn in the middle that is a real jolt . on the whole the film ends up no more than an unbelievable action picture with a few rewarding performances . it is rated r . there is no sex or nudity , but there is violence , a few gory scenes , and some bad language . it would be okay for most teenagers . i can not bring myself to recommend just cause , but you might find it enjoyable albeit totally unbelievable . i give it * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
waterworld or hollywood goes junk was of the most controversial films of 1995 . waterworld looks like a low budget blade runner goes to sea . how can the most expensive movie ever made look so ugly ? although not near as bad as it seems at first , this is a film with an innumerable list of problems . the script by peter rader , david twohy , and joss whedon is needlessly confusing . watching it is like starting with episode seven of the " the forsyte saga " and trying to decipher what has been happening . i had the same feeling when trying to parse the story in the failed movie dune . the polar ice caps have melted , and the world is all water . the most valuable possession is dirt so that people can grow plants , and the most hoarded commodity is oil for water-skis and boats . he gets to mouth inanities such as , " if i ever see him again , i'm going to cut open his head and eat his brain . " the script dares you to take it seriously while for all intents and purposes becoming a parody of bad science fiction movies . many of the scenes in the show make little sense , and yet for some reason the film begins to grow on you after a while . i am not sure why . perhaps you get sucked into the story . is there dry land left , and if so , how exactly will they find it . maybe it is costner's beguiling little smile . i don't know , but i stayed with it until the end . i did not need to . if you've seen part of it , there is little need to see the rest since it is basically the same . i found the ending a let down and did not care for the way the story was wrapped up . there is one quite magical scene in the film where the mariner takes helen on an underwater journey and breathes for both of them . here the sets finally have some beauty . were that the rest of the film were of equal quality . waterworld runs way too long at 2 : 14 . it is rated pg-13 . there is brief nudity , some intense violence , and some bad language . i was kind of surprised it didn't get an r rating . the show should be fine for teenagers and perhaps for some mature kids ten and over . although the show grew on me , it is too ridiculous for me to recommend it . i give it * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
penny marshall's big staring tom hanks did this so much better . the script , is so much more intelligent in big and the acting there is believable . in fact , if you want to see a excellent show about kids around the preteen age , welcome to the dollhouse is still in the theaters and is ten times better than jack . does your hospital have a metal detector ? but i digress . many of the gags in the show do work . most however are nothing more than recycled bathroom humor jokes you can find in any low budget kid's movie like porky's . immediately one of the fatal flaws of the show becomes obvious . robin williams does little more than a low key version of his comedy routine . it is so reserved that it is only infrequently funny , but most of all it is not believable . he acts more like he is six , but mainly it is just robin williams doing his shtick . i did not buy it for a minute . having said that , the show manages to be funny some times and poignant others . imagine a two hundred pound man and his teddy bear taking a flying leap to jump between you and your spouse . many of the scenes are sensitive and touching . gosh , it would be so easy since his mom would be happy to provide transportation . the best piece of dialog in the picture comes in preparation to the classic essay question . jack , looking very sad says , " what do i want to be when i grow up ? way too much of the show is either gross , in poor taste or both . the boys eat concoctions of worms , spaghetti , toothpaste , you name it . this scene looks like one of those now illegal fraternity hazings . sometimes sexual relations are treated with respect or in good humor in the show , but usually not . there is a scene in a bar that is in poor taste . she is then stupid enough to ask why , and he answers because of you . oh no , she just smiles politely at him as if those sexual references are just fine in her fifth grade class . although this is a sad show with many flaws , it manages to have a life affirming ending . don't give up on the picture as most of the critics have . it does have it moments . it is rated pg-13 for sexual references and innuendo . there is very brief nudity but no sex , violence or bad language other than the bathroom humor . the show would be fine for most kids six and up , but i can not figure out the target audience . this was a show we were going to skip , but jeffrey ( age seven ) wanted to see it . he gives it one thumbs up , but one thumbs sideways for having kissing in the movie . the sexual references might as well have been in lithuanian since they went right over his head . i can not bring myself to recommend the picture , but there are some interesting parts . i give it * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
i was really looking forward to this movie . i thought mel gibson could do a very interesting hamlet , and he did . the problem was with the direction . it was slow and plodding . i found it hard to stay awake in parts . usually shakespeare is so lively it is hard to keep up , but not this version . also , i was a bit surprised at how little any music was used . the other actors were okay except for allan bates who also seemed to sleep through his scenes . normally , i love franco zeffirelli and in fact one of my favorite movies is his romeo and juliet which has great intensity and interest in every scene . i would hamlet give it 2 stars and a thumbs down . i must in fairness point out that my wife really liked this movie . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : january 21 , 1991 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
the plot of money for nothing was interesting . sounds pretty unrealistic right ? well , read on . the fascination is joey's stupidity and the fact that it was a true story . yes , truth is stranger than fiction as they say . that this story is true is the hook that kept us watching . the problem with money for nothing isn't the script or the plot , it is that the acting by cusack , debi mazar , michael madsen , and benicio del toro and the directing by ramon menendez which was all plodding . i give it 2 stars because the story was interesting enough even if the movie wasn't very good . i do not recommend you see it . oh well , it could have been worse . we could have stayed to see all of the disgusting undercover blues . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : september 29 , 1993 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
i gave the movie 2 stars . i liked it but could not recommend it . overall the show was a mess . you could fall asleep in parts it went so slow . you may remember gyllenhaal from all of the tv movies he has directed . perhaps you saw his awful paris trout on tv . the movie centered around winger's sexuality . she gave an absolutely wonderful performance . very realistic . i wish she had a better director . the other people in the movie were acceptable but nothing special . there is one scene in the movie that was more chilling than any horror show . best to close your eyes and hold your ears - it was frightening . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : december 6 , 1993 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
i know i should have liked carlito's way , but it just did not work for me . his performance was good albeit it fairly monotonous . this type of role is usually overacted , but penn , who has been done for overacting on too many occasions , was believable and fascinating . it might be worth going to see the show to see penn's performance , but i don't think so . the director was brian de palma . i would put carlito's way as a so-so show , i give it * * , but i do not recommend it . overall , i just could not care about these people . they could live or die ; i didn't care . if you do go , besides penn's role to enjoy , there are wonderful rain scenes in new york . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
suspect ( 1987 ) is an involving film , but one that is peppered with actions that are either implausible or at least highly improbable . if your ability to suspend disbelief is strong , you will probably find yourself enjoying some of the courtroom drama and thriller aspects of the film - numerous flaws and all . none of the acting is great , but it is fairly compelling , and director peter yates ( from the run of the country ) knows how to make entertaining films . sure . yes , this show is quite predictable . if a hollywood screenwriter makes a point of labeling someone a republican , the wardrobe department might as well have him wear a black hat through the rest of the picture . the music by michael kamen is sappy . whenever the director needs extra tension , and eric roth's script can't provide enough , yates turns to the composer to crack up the violins . actually , the script gets almost laughable at points . after complaining about not seeing a movie in a year and not being able to have a kid because she is too busy to date , riley laments , " i spend all of my day with murders and rapists , and what's really crazy , i like them . " even with the ridiculous script , i managed somehow to like the performances by cher and quaid . as for neeson , this is one of my least favorite of his films . his performance in it does nothing for me . i could probably write an article just on the flaws of the show . among those not already mentioned are the fact that riley somehow immediately knows that anderson is left-handed . since he doesn't read lips and can't hear , this makes it a little difficult . a fun show to watch in parts , but one where they feel the audience is not smart enough to see through all of the ridiculous contrivances in the plot . it is rated r for some violence and a little bad language . it would be fine for any teenager and maybe kids a bit younger . this is a somewhat enjoyable but frustrating show where there are just too many unbelievable parts for me to be able to recommend it . i give it * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
the spitfire grill is a sometimes delightful , but all too often disappointing fable . at its best , it is a morality tale with some touching characters and a magical setting . i hate to report that the directing and the script by lee david zlotoff is uneven and unconvincing . the spitfire grill serves to both mesmerize and to frustrate its audience . this is a shame since at its heart it is such a sweet little story . i should say that i never found the movie overly sentimental for which it has been so heavily criticized . it has also become a needlessly controversial film in the press , but more on that later in the review . talented actress alison elliott plays inmate percy talbot . i am not sure if towns like this actually exist , but it is easy enough to suspend disbelief and assume that they do . as percy approaches gilead , it is a quintessential normal rockwell hamlet . thus is the audience set up for a deeply felt and moving cinematic experience which this pictures only partially fulfills . burstyn plays the only completely developed character and is the only actor who delivers an entirely convincing performance . this is a role that is usually done with gushing sentimentality . here burstyn transforms her character into a tough old bird with more resilience than heart . typical of this is when she tells her nephew and the picture's poorly cast villain nahum goddard ( will patton ) that " until i forget my name or start drooling at the mouth , i'll thank you to let me make my own decisions . " in a supporting role full of rarely realized potential marcia gay harden plays nahum's wife shelby . harden's acting range consists of various sad smiles . if she is , then she gives poor white trash a good name . in case , you haven't realized it by now , this movie is bursting at the seams with mysteries . a few are interesting , but most are lame . in the characterizations of hannah and percy is where the show comes alive and demands to be seen . the other ingredients serve only to bog down a promising story . as the movie gets to full steam in the middle , the music and the cinematography open up . they move from the mystical beginnings to settings and sounds of grandeur . both of these technical elements of the picture work well . the ending is one of my favorite parts of the film . it follows the more hard hitting aspects of the premise of the movie that so often gets lost in its development . suffice it to say , that it is not your typical happy ending . before i close , i must comment on all of the controversy in the press surrounding the funding of the film . they were looking to find a picture with morals that they approved of , and this film had them . why this causes people such anguish , i have no idea . the spitfire grill avoids discussions of religion and the only church in town is abandoned so the pro-religious aspects of this picture are dramatically less than anti-religious ones of most other films . the spitfire grill runs a little long at 1 : 57 . it is rated pg-13 , but why is beyond me . this film such be pg at most since there is no sex , nudity , or violence although it does have a tragedy . the picture has a single and mild cuss word , and it teaches good morals to kids . it would be fine for any kid old enough to be interested in it . although there is much to admire , the spitfire grill is not fully developed enough for me to be able to recommend it . it gets * * from me . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
if you can focus on the story itself and ignore the plodding pacing , at its heart killer : a journal of murder is a fascinating tale . in a film where oliver stone is the executive producer , you may not be surprised to find that the victims in this movie get short shrift . i don't like you and i don't want any more of you . " carl will have none of this , and he asks henry if he is a red , to which henry nods yes but keep it quiet . spud is full of lofty experiments . you can take a guess as to the success of that little experiment . the acting by woods is quite good , but far from his best . leonard seems out of his depth and gives a lackluster and never convincing performance . the other characters are all caricatures . only henry looks like a wimp . the main problem with the show is the surprisingly slow pace set by the director . how he takes such naturally controversial material and a high spirited actor like woods and manages to craft such a low energy show is a conundrum . the only answer i have is that he views the book on which it is based so reverentially that he wants his audience to have the time to fully ponder the subtleties in its every meanings . as carl puts it , " i don't want to be alive . i want out of these clothes . i want out of this body . i want out of this world . " later he goes on to say , " you created me . now , you kill me . " killer : a journal of murder runs 1 : 31 , but trust me , it feels like a three hour movie . it is rated r for brutal violence including one scene of a guy's skull being crushed where most of the audience had to look away . there is also bad language and a rape scene . this show would be okay only for quite mature teenagers . although the story is interesting and woods gives a compelling performance , watching it all is such an arduous task that i can not bring myself to recommend it . for woods' work in it , i do give it * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
let's create a high concept movie . now we need that high concept . viola , let's remake akira kurasawa's 1961 classic yojimbo ( the bodyguard ) , but here comes the great twist . we will make it in the style of sergio leone's 1964 cheap spaghetti western fistful of dollars . and if that isn't enough , for the piece de resistance , we'll cast bruce willis as the clint eastwood for the 90s . by now , you are probably either thinking that this is one of the stupider ideas you have heard recently or that this could be a lot of fun . well , the truth is that this highly atmospheric piece of cinematic nonsense is fun albeit not that much . back in 1964 , eastwood's invulnerability was original enough to be hokey entertainment . here watching willis as outlaw john smith gun down scores and scores of people before getting hit is so derivative that the film quickly bogs down . nevertheless , the show may be worth watching for the atmosphere and the images . there is even a dead horse in it to remind you of the linkage . the cinematography by lloyd ahern ( wild bill ) and the sets by gary wissner ( seven , the abyss , and wyatt earp ) are certainly the best and most imaginative parts of the film . the most effective atmosphere is the blowing sand reducing visibility to about ten feet , but there are also large rain storms and blinding rays of sun to enjoy . hill's script is populated with terse dialog in pure eastwood style . doyle tells smith , " i figure you as the kind of guy that always goes to the highest bidder . " this meanest of the mean is played with subtle gusto by christopher walken . hill tries to make smith into some kind of introspective philosopher , but this unbelievable silliness is laughable . what's yours ? " still our philosopher killer is not perfect . in one of his aphorisms , he reflects that , " i always like sinners a lot better than saints . " it's just a matter of when . " by an hour into the picture the audience is totally anesthetized to death . people with large holes and flowing blood become nothing more than targets in a video game . in a completely predictable show , i thought there was going to be a mildly surprising ending . sad to say , it was not to be . as soon as you hear the plot , you can write the rest of the script yourself and save your seven bucks . of course , if you do you will miss out on some great atmosphere . last man standing runs about 1 : 45 , but i am not sure exactly how long since there was no press kit at the screening which was held just before the film opens . this is usually a sign that the studio thinks the film is in trouble , which is a surprise since i think this film will a box office success . the movie is rated r . there is no nudity , but there is a little sex , some bad language , and lots of blood and gore . i think the film will be fine for most teenagers , but it depends on their sensitivity to violence . although i did have some fun at the screening , willis's portrayal of eastwood got tiring after a while . i'd rather have the real eastwood than an ersatz one so i give the picture a mild thumbs down and award it * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
the leopard son is a g rated nature documentary movie produced by the discovery channel and released to the theaters . think of it as a live action bambi if you like . the show is full of the circle of life where animals eat other for food , but it is rarely gory . even his dad learned a lot about the animal hierarchy that was not obvious . i figured , for example , that a leopard would scare off a baboon , but a leopard is no match for a baboon's strong jaws . i was surprised at how dull the narration is . gielgud's usual melodious voice seems tired and uninvolved . the tone is pleasant enough , but it lacks the necessary degree of warmth to make it compelling . the pedantic script could have learned a lot from the living desert and the other disney nature documentaries from the 50s . they knew how to use a little humor to enliven the story . the script mainly tries to be a fact based autobiography , but thankfully does have its more poetic moments . later he remarks about the animals , " it looks like a game , but it's so much more . it's about determination and persistence . " the scenery , especially of the large animal herds and of the sunlight and the mist , is spectacular . it never ceases to amaze me how they can get so close even with telephoto lens to photograph animals in the wild . all of this notwithstanding , i was a bit disappointed by the cinematography . i thought the colors seemed washed out and overall , it did not match in quality the images being captured . the editing seems sloppy as well . too often the editing consisted of one long slow scene pasted to another with the effect being too often tedious . the film's sounds are quite effective with the low rumble of the lions and the whinny roar of the young cheetahs being particularly fascinating . on the other hand , stewart copeland's music , which tries to mimic african rhythms , left me cold . it is rated g . small kids might be scared by a couple of the killing scenes , but i don't think so since they are handled so carefully . will your kids like it ? i guess it depends if they like discovery channel sort of shows and if they are patient . this dad was frequently bored during the show . nevertheless , my son is a testament to the effect that the film has appeal . i tried , but just can not bring myself to recommend this picture no matter how well intentioned . i do give it a * * rating for some nice parts . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : october 10 , 1996 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
bittersweet comedies are tricky at best even under the most expert guidance . this schmaltzy ode oscillates between comedy and tragedy , but only the comedy is successful . the script by david e . kelley based on michael brady's play has characters in constant banter that puts the audience in stitches . as soon as they begin to enjoy the film , however , it switches back to its maudlin roots , and people just stare at the screen not knowing what to make of its false sentimentality . the acting is equally uneven . other than looks , neither actor brings anything to the part . although pfeiffer gives one of the most insubstantial pieces of acting in her career , gallagher's acting is not much meatier . the good news is that the strong supporting cast , who are given all the comedic lines , almost saves the film . just because gillian has become an apparition appearing only to david is no reason to cancel the festivities . david is taken aback and tells paul , " don't you think it is a little insensitive fixing me up on her birthday ? " soon the seriousness passes for a bit , and we are into the fun silliness of gillian's day . these scenes are off the wall and very funny , but the laughter is all guarded because the audience knows that this film will switch without warning to its somber core . although thankfully not very often , pfeiffer does show up in some scenes . i am not making this up . in fact , i don't think i am not even capable of making up such drivel . as i said earlier , only the comedy works . there is one exception . this subplot appears to be nothing more substantial than the comedy about sandcastles , but in one intelligently written scene , the flirting reaches a surprising conclusion . this is quite an insightful scene , and one that i had not expected to see in such a trivial picture . most impressive is that once it starts , it builds to an unexpected ending . reliable james horner comes through with some excellent music . it has all of the genuine romantic and dreamy aspects that the picture itself lacks . similarly , tim suhrstedt's cinematography has a wonderful and beautiful surreal feel . the best scenes are the nighttime ones of luminescent blues . ghost is a much better picture that covers the same ground . i am at a loss to explain why gillian was made . is the availability of good looking leads suffice motivation to make a film ? it is now rated pg-13 , but reportedly they made last minute adjustments to get an r rating removed . there is no sex , nudity , or violence . the show includes a meaningless scene where david uses the f word several time and argues about the number of times he has used it . the picture would have been stronger without the scene and would have allowed younger kids to see it . even so , my guess is that the show would be fine for most kids over say nine . you can make the decision knowing the f words are there . i laughed a lot , but was put off by the pseudo-serious parts so i can't quite bring myself to recommend it . i give it * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
with the mafia genre having run its course , director abel ferrara attempts to revive it with a bit of revisionist history . no longer . from when-in-doubt-shoot , we have gone to let's-ponder . don't worry , you will not be disappointed . to add a twist , the gangsters' business is full of political overtones with a range from republicans to communists . although you would swear that the funeral was by a swedish director , ferrara is actually the one who gave the world the extremely violent , but highly regarded bad lieutenant and my personal favorite of his , the 1993 remake of body snatchers . the only way i can figure it is that ferrara must have spent a lot time recently watching old ingmar bergman films . although it is a color film , its color palette contains mainly shades of black . the cinematography by ken kelsch is dark and gloomy . the sets by charles lagola are equally somber with dark woods and sleek , long black automobiles . joe delia's music is serious and melancholic with solo violins . ( i will reject making any reference here to our current political landscape . ) after a pseudo-intellectual discussion of the economic implication of strikes , ray says learnedly , " we understand the problems of the economy also . " the show is full of film references . johnny tells his friend that , " i would say life is pretty pointless , wouldn't you , without the movies ? " this is an accolade to the great film critic pauline kael and her famous quote " the words kiss kiss bang bang , which i saw on an italian movie poster , are perhaps the briefest statement imaginable of the basic appeal of movies . this appeal is what attracts us , and ultimately what makes us despair when we begin to understand how seldom movies are more than this . " the acting is interesting even if full of stereotypes . del toro is ultrasmooth and confident . walken is , well , walken . the most complex and complete performance is given by penn . his is the only one that is believable . it is easy to miss much of nicholas st . john's sparse script due to the tendency of the actors to whisper and mumble . i didn't make the world . " i love the part of the press kit discussing ferrara : " one of the most idiosyncratic filmmakers of our time , ferrar's films combine high art and low down sleaze to create an unflinching , in-your-face depiction of the moral mayhem of modern life . " this is an apt description of bad lieutenant , but is off the mark for the funeral . the funeral is a slow moving and cerebral film interrupted briefly for the obligatory violent sequences . its style does have a certain attraction and the acting is good . whether that is sufficient to compel audiences to see it remains problematic . it is rated r for nudity , explicit sex , strong language , and periodic , realistic , but not gratuitous violence . if teenagers go , they should be mature . the show is a tough call for me since as much as i admire the risk taking , there is just not enough there for me to be able to recommend it . it gets * * in my book . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
some authors are easily transferable to the medium of film . but for some novelists , the adaptations have all resulted in varying degrees of failure . although it has some appeal and charm , it also ends up on the debit side of his ledger . first time screenwriter robert weide tries hard to make a film out of vonnegut's book , but i suspect the book's style make such efforts almost hopeless . vonnegut's books have a cult following , especially on campuses , but their appeal lies in their strange syntax and structure as much as in their characters . this part of the film is shot by tom richmond in a grainy black and white . most of the show is told in flashback where the images are full of lush colors that are , for reasons i'll discuss later , too pretty . howard says , " you love good , you hate evil , and you'd do anything for the sake of romance . " " i guess the moral here is : you must be careful what you pretend to be because in the end you are who you're pretending to be , " reasons howard about his moral dilemma . nolte is an actor with a proclivity for overacting . mulholland falls is one such film , but hopefully you missed it . here he gives the first performance where he manages to underact . his acting is disengaged and borders on being boring . even when nolte's acting is awful , it has rarely been boring . gordon's direction is never involving , and the viewers become little more than voyeurs . " yes , i've changed . this act is even less effective than the first . one makes sense , and the other doesn't . first , the script includes some excellent dialog , bitingly funny and insightful . second , the show has a lovely serenity to it . since this is a tragedy about nazis and about innocent people being trapped , why we should have this tranquillity makes little sense . outwardly the situations are tragic , but the lush cinematography , the overly dreamy music by michael convertino and the peaceful composure of most of the participants give the film an inappropriate peacefulness . the scenes of wartime germany are picture postcard perfect . finally , the audience is lulled with the constant sounds of bing crosby's melodious voice singing " white christmas . " i hope that movie producers will not again waste our time with vonnegut . savor him in print if you will , but don't try to force his work where it doesn't fit . it is rated r . there is brief nudity , a little violence , and some bad language . the show is all pretty mild and would be fine for any teenager . i enjoyed parts of it , especially the script , but there is not enough there to recommend it . i give the picture * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
so what kind of movies can a superstar make ? let me confess . i am a big arnold schwarzenegger fan . his shows are bursting with energy , and there is rarely a dull moment . even in the films of his of which that i have not been fond , junior comes to mind , he is interesting nevertheless . so it is with jingle all the way . this is a horribly flawed film , being needlessly mean-spirited , but it does have arnold , and he is fun to watch in it . nevertheless , i need to warn parents upfront that there are many messages in the film of which you may not approve . most are introduced in a spirit of humor , but young kids may not appreciate the difference . " don't forget . it seems that all the kids are getting them this christmas and " whoever doesn't is going to be a real loser . " those of us with young kids will identify with this toy obsession . those without will probably think this part of the film is little more than a plot device . set in a cold suburban landscape -- a snowy twin cities locale , the cold is a metaphor for the film's bleak humor . jingle all the way has more fistfights and hitting people than any kid's show i have seen in a long , long time . howard even slugs the poor , defenseless reindeer . it seems , " they use subliminal messages to suck kids' minds out . " this leads to the most distasteful fight in the show . howard tries to punch out scores of jolly olde st . nicks . while all the misery is unfolding on the screen , the music is playing happy tunes like " i'll be home for christmas " to remind you that this is supposed to be a comedy . we all laughed a lot , but i wonder how much of it was nervous laughter . both arnold and sinbad are amusing . the problem is that the reasons for the humor are troubling . as he says , " i work for the post office so i'm not stable . " winning in the category for worst advice given in any kid's movie this year is that by ted's son to jamie . did wonders for my dad . " granted it is in a nightmare sequence , but still . the show ends very well , and if you stay through all the credits , the movie continues with one last joke . jingle all the way is a pathetic film that manages to be entertaining nevertheless , and one whose high energy makes it hard to dislike no matter how much you disagree with its messages . a guilty pleasure for its viewers . for believers of the hollywood conspiracy to sap the morals of our youth theory , this picture is the one for them . it will seem to vindicate their assertions . jingle all the way runs just 1 : 29 . for a movie rated just pg , it stretches the limits with lines including " what the hell " and " you sorry ass . " there is no sex or nudity , but the mean time between fights is about three minutes . i liked this show more than i'd care to admit , but i can't recommend any kid's film that is so mean spirited . he gives it six thumbs up and says it would be fine for kids six and up -- to which i would add , at least . i give the picture a reluctant * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
roman polanski is a controversial , but extremely gifted director . undoubtedly giddy with the success of his rosemary's baby , roman polanski decided to approach his next film , a shakespearean play , in the same manner . with backing from playboy productions , his vision of macbeth is one of the lessor of the movies made from shakespeare's works . beside the slasher movie aspects , the film is filled with full frontal nudity . macbeth might have been finished before then . all i know for sure is that it was released in 1971 . ] all of this notwithstanding , the major problem with the film is that the acting is lifeless . yes , the shocking portions are there , but most of the acting is remarkably devoid of energy . polanski's direction serves more to confuse than to enlighten . if you are not already well versed in the play before you enter , you will undoubtedly leave shaking your head and wondering " what was that all about ? " polanski's macbeth has a traditional look . the sets and the costumes are quite realistic . the squalor of that period is in full evidence . from what i know of scottish history this is all authentic . the movie was actually filmed in wales , but that is another story . it paints a bleak picture of the landscape . rather than the picture postcard look , it goes with quite a depressing motif . polanski has his actors think aloud many of the lines as they walk rather than speak them . he is no kenneth branagh . if one of shakespeare's purpose in the play was to shock people with macbeth's dastardly deeds , then polanski's techniques are effective . as in most sequences , the words are literate but the acting is not . bayler has little screen presence which is the problem with most of actors in the film . only francesca annis gives a mildly interesting interpretation of a woman gone mad . regardless of all of its flaws , this is shakespeare , and the language is worth the price of admission . when macbeth wants to beat a fast exit , he does not say , " let's get out of here . " oh not , shakespearean prose is ever so much more elegant . macbeth advises , " let us not be dainty of our leave-taking . " don't you wish you could talk like that ? don't you wish everyone would talk like that ? as you hear the cold wind blowing across the barren scottish plain , you can feel the chill going right through your bones . finally , i can not leave this review without mentioning the famous scene of the witches . so what do you think polanski's vision of this is ? well , he has not just a few , but three score of witches . i wish he had spent less time trying to shock and more on practice sessions for his actors . it is rated r for graphic violence and full frontal nudity of women and boys . the show would be appropriate for mature teenagers . although it is full of flaws , the movie does have lovely language and effective settings . in the end , i can not recommend it , but i do give it * * which is perhaps a bit more than it deserves . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
sometimes it is a single strategic mistake that is a movie's downfall . so it is with disney's live action remake of their 1961 classic one hundred and one dalmatians . this time they call it simply 101 dalmatians , and this time they simply forget the part that made the original work -- the dogs' story . the live action version stars people who have dogs . the cartoon version is clear who is in charge , and it is not the humans . in the original the animals refer to the people as their pets . in the animated version the dogs are the stars . most important of all is that the charm of the original came from the dogs' conversations , not the people's . in an era of talking animal pictures both good ( babe ) and bad ( gordy ) , there is no reason why the disney remake could not have given these pups a voice . in the cartoon there are many unique types , but in the new version they do little more than give the dogs names . even given the mistakes in its creation and its lack of effective direction by stephen herek , there is still much to admire in the picture . hands down , the best part of the film is glenn close's near perfect performance as that archfiend cruella de vil . close has a blast giving an outlandish rendition of a heinous fiend . suffice it to say that she would make the top of any animal rights group's hate list . i worship fur . " when cruella speaks , it is frequently accompanied by thunder and lighting so that you do not miss the point of how wicked she is . hughes does not know the word subtle . you may remember him from his first two home alone films , and i am sorry to report that there will be a home alone 3 . no boring old author as in the original . they provide little more than window dressing to cruella and the pups . one problem with the remake is that you really need to have seen and remember the original to appreciate the nuances of the story . this is particularly true of " the barking chain , " which is carefully explained in the cartoon but just happens in the live action version . the biggest disappointment to me is the scene where the puppies watch television . that is a long and precious scene in the original . the remake has only a vastly truncated and lifeless reenactment . i am not going to bother outlining any more of the plot . if you want to know more of the story line , you can read my review of the original that i wrote precisely 101 days before the opening tonight of the remake . there are some technical aspects worth mentioning . the set designs by assheton gorton are imaginative , particularly the ending scene , which is adorable on many counts . michael kamen's music is full of energy and bristling with adventure . adrian biddle's cinematography is bland indoors , but outside his blue gray snow images are lovely and evocative of what the picture should have been . the makers of 101 dalmatians connected all the dots , but did they weave a compelling story ? i think not . although there were some nice dog shots , the show is devoid of life save cruella's villainy . a picture more tedious than charming . skip this one and rent the original . some theaters are showing a short cartoon with it , but ours did not . the picture is rated g and would be fine for kids of any age . there is one scene where cruella is slashing at a hay stack with a pitchfork in a futile attempt to stab a puppy , but our audience of little ones did not seem frighten by it . other than that , there is no violence , sex , nudity , or bad language . i could have done without the scene of a puppy peeing on cruella's picture to demonstrate his hatred of her . my son jeffrey ( age 7 1/2 ) gives the show a thumbs up , but he remained inanimate during most of the movie . i give the movie a mild thumbs down and rate it * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
" it is an awesome sight . he tries to make a parody of a science fiction movie , but instead comes up with a film that plays more as a parody of a parody . the picture is laced with sag gags from end to end , but most manage to fall as flat as the spoken humor from screenwriter jonathan gems . like a well-constructed bad painting , there is much to admire in the film , but the net effect leaves you dispassionate . the movie , which has some similarities to the vastly superior independence day , has the president as the central character . in a singularly trite address , he proclaims to his people , " it is profoundly moving to know there is intelligent life out there . " accomplished costume designer colleen atwood ( little women , that thing you do ! , and edward scissorhands ) designed the costumes for mars attacks ! . she uses badly contrasting pastel colors to make the already ditzy cast seem even more so . parker plays a role reminiscent of her kid's tv show part in the substance of fire . here , her clothes are even more outlandish . the chair's contrast with her clothes will probably short circuit a few picture tubes when the movies goes to video . lukas haas as richie norris is the only sincere character in the movie . most characters in the film do little set pieces having only tangential relation to the rest of the story . this is one of those hollywood casts of thousands movies . see what i mean . i am not against using large numbers of stars in a picture . earlier that day i saw the new and absolutely marvelous four hour hamlet . in it kenneth branagh uses a large cast of acting's luminaries to great effect . is a violent film . why some end up red and others blue is the story's chief conundrum . in a scene lifted straight out of an r rated horror movie , one character's finger is realistically eaten and then the bloody stump is thrown in a fish bowl . the camera moves in for a close-up to make sure we see it . taken as a film for adults , the violence is not a problem , but considering this film is rated pg-13 , there will be many frightened grade-schoolers . it certainly frightened my son badly , and i have not seen him scared at a movie in over a year . i did enjoy portions of mars attacks ! , but its whole is less than the some of the few good parts . at least it has a totally unpredictable ending . it is rated pg-13 . there is no nudity , but there is brief sex , some profanity , and lots of violence . my son jeffrey , age 7 1/2 , gives it a " thumbs 55 percent down and 45 percent up . " my ever affable son , tends to like every movie , but not this one . he said the film is " for kids 7 1/2 and up because i really was scared , and i get scared easier than most kids my age . " i think the film is for kids 9 or 10 and up . i can not recommend it , but i do give it * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
touch is a film about healing through stigmata . for those of you like myself who recognize the word but have no idea what it means , the movie's information kit defines it as " a spontaneous manifestation of bloody wounds on a person's hands , feet , and side , similar to wounds of the crucified jesus christ . " with this much information you probably figure touch is another movie from some religious order . schrader is a director who likes his material on the edge . as you can now guess , schrader approaches touch in ways that other directors might not . although touch does have its moments , i spent most of the movie as confused as the actors . as occasional nervous laughter crept into what was otherwise an unusually silent press screening , i kept asking myself : was this line supposed to be funny ? are we laughing with the show or at it ? most of the actors were confused as to whether they were in a serious film or a comedy . others seemed to feel they were in a parody . many scenes were quite enjoyable , and yet . . . perhaps it was the movie's beginning that turned me off . any show that starts with someone throwing objects at a television screen because he does not like what is playing puts my cliche meter immediately into the red zone . skeet ulrich's acting makes the picture . you are never sure what he is going to do next , and he has the innocence of a true faith healer . his goatee and overall appearance are meant to remind the audience of jesus without trying to copy some religious picture exactly . walken and fonda are great actors and watching them pull off these ambiguous roles was one of the delights of the film . and juvenal can confess to her , " i bleed from five wounds and heal people , but i've never been in love . " touch bogs now more than you would expect from a paul schrader film . in one long scene , for example , walken and fonda are forced to sit around making small talk . walken is better doing something creepy , and fonda seems too intelligent to bother with this meaningless banter . easily the weakest character in the film , tom arnold gets large amounts of screen time as august murray , the head of a protest movement within the roman catholic church . arnold's performance borders on the embarrassing . the movie is full of known actors . a director and an actor , mazursky has had mixed success with both careers . here he is the most wasted of all of the actors . davidovitch acts with great gusto in what is a part so small that it would have vanished without her energy . garofalo takes her few lines and makes them special by her mere presence . " controversy is my oxygen , " lusanna says . " it's the air i breathe . " gershon's acting abilities appear limited to large smiles . an off-beat show , certainly . and sometimes , an interesting one . but too much of its far out humor just doesn't work . touch runs just 1 : 37 . it is rated r . there is some male and female nudity , a little sex , a little violence , and a few cuss words . perhaps it was the sacrilegious aspects that got it the r , but i would have expected the film to have gotten a pg-13 . the show would be fine for any teenager and perhaps those just a bit younger if they can understand the humor in the material . i liked parts of the show especially some of the acting , but cannot bring myself to recommend it . i give it * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
the 1995 movie fluke takes the premise that humans can be reincarnated into animals . in the first , it is mainly the animals' story . the story has an interesting premise , but second time director carlo carlei does not know how to craft an involving movie out of it . a pleasant enough film , but never a compelling one . fluke has high quality production values , but that is about it . the cinematography by raffaele mertes is more impressive than the sets . similarly the music by carlo siliotto is much more touching than the script by carlo carlei and james carrington , based on a book by james herbert . all of the cast , especially stoltz and modine , have talent , but none of it is demonstrated in fluke . there is one consistently good part , the acting by the dogs . they perform many antics and behaviors that you do not normally see in movies . too bad they could not have inspired the homo sapiens . this segment is little more than sensationalism masquerading as comedy , and not very funny comedy . there are many better animal pictures out there . rent one of them instead of fluke . young kids are likely to be frightened . my son jeffrey , age 7 1/2 , gives it a thumbs sideways because of the bloody parts . he said it was an okay movie except for the dogs who were really good actors . i found it a well made , but mediocre film that i cannot recommend . i give it * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : january 1 , 1997 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
[note that the follow-up is set to rec . arts . sf . written rather than rec . art . sf . movies . this was done on purpose . the whole wide world a film review by steve rhodes copyright 1997 steve rhodes your eyes may be playing tricks on you . the title of this movie is the whole wide world and not the world wide web . many computer types will probably have to parse the name several times to get it right . this is a film not about the net , but about someone known as " the greatest pulp fiction writer in the whole wide world . " the only real reason to see the film is to catch more of that new star from jerry maguire , renee zellweger , in one of the movie's two leading roles . although it has a classic three tissue ending , the rest of the picture is a remarkably unmoving portrayal of two characters full of potential . as flat as the texas prairie , the movie saves all of its emotional impact until the end . the cinematography by claudio rocha is gorgeous . you may remember his stunning work in picture bride . here he shows texas as its best -- full of reddish golden colors . the prettiest images are the sunsets , but the forest canopy is warm and inviting as well . the best sequence has the camera pan down slowly from the highest branches to the seemingly insignificant people under them . making a living producing pulp fiction isn't easy . he reveals that his solution is , " i stretch it out ; i'm verbose . " bob is not prime date material . his idea of a good time is " drivin' and blabbin' , " which he does frequently in the movie . herein lies the major problem with the film . screenwriter michael scott myers rarely gives him anything to say worth hearing . even if this stems from deficiencies in the book , myers should have been able to fix it . this is compounded by dan ireland's meandering direction and luis colina's loose editing . there are the ingredients for a good movie here , but the mixture we are given does not gel . the two leads give good performances , but the rest of the cast , especially all of novalyne's women friends , are weak . i found the " texan spoken here " sign at the soda fountain quite ironic since few of the characters even attempt an accent . those that do come up with a weak , vaguely southern accent . in a small texas town before the advent of television , you can be sure that all the accents would have been so thick you could have cut them with a knife . this is not even close . no matter how hard zellweger and d'onofrio try , the movie never made me care about their characters . zellweger's part was made more earnest than touching by the script , and d'onofrio's was reduced to quirkiness . in the finale , when it came time to break out the kleenex , my eyes stayed dry . some of people in the audience whimpered , but i was never more than intrigued by the film . a promising story , but a disappointing delivery . the whole wide world runs 1 : 45 . it is rated pg . there are a couple of mild cuss words , but no sex , nudity or violence . given the mature themes , kids would probably have to be nine or ten to be interested in the show . although the film has its moments , it is not compelling cinema . i give it a mild thumbs down and * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
pedantic and preachy , penn's film tries to be an almost unwatchably horrific picture and succeeds . it has a single point , which is the brutality common during that period . penn has given us a highly repetitious movie , which in the first ten minutes chillingly illustrates south africa's violent inhumanity and then forces the viewer to endure similar scenes again and again . hard to watch shows can be effective , the best recent example being paradise lost : the child murders at robin hood hills . although paradise lost almost made me feel ill , it was enlightening and never manipulative . inside is an in-your-face movie that flaunts the atrocities . for those who do not the first ten minutes of the film will provide an education . the rest of the picture relies on shock value and misses a golden opportunity to teach us more . his chief interrogator in the kafkaesque drama is a colonel kruger , played by nigel hawthorne in a performance reminiscent of ralph fiennes's work as the smiling nazi in schindler's list . although the guards are played by south africans with heavy accents , stoltz's accent is jarringly bad . much of the problems in the show stem from the script's obsession with the prison cell as the venue from which to tell the story and from jan weincke's camera angles . these talking lips cover the entire movie screen for minutes at a time . although the performances are excellent and easy to empathize with , they suffer through the repetition . the film's title was not chosen casually . the script uses language to outrage the viewers . " it was about culture . it also uses some gruesome images to arouse the audience's anger . the otherwise completely plausible story concludes with an emotionally effective , but unrealistic scene . overall , the film is efficaciously terrifying , but little more . there are many other and better films that cover the same ground as inside . i left knowing little more than when i entered the screening . stoltz says proudly , " he hardly gives you any direction . " therein , perhaps , lies the problem . inside runs 1 : 34 , but it feels twice that long . it is rated r for violence , torture , language , and a brief sex scene . it is appropriate for teenagers only if they are quite mature and not susceptible to nightmares . i admired all of the acting and i think the message of the film is important , but the show itself is almost unwatchable . i give it a marginal thumbs down and * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
if you stay till the end of this review , i'll tell you a unique experience i shared with her . first , i need your help . as i was counting up the cars being killed in metro , i began to wonder : exactly how many wrecks does it take to impress today's jaded audiences ? certainly half a dozen are not enough , but will a full dozen suffice ? more to the point , at what count does the number become so ridiculous that the whole exercise becomes little more than a bad parody of a demolition derby ? whatever the number is , metro exceeded it . did you enjoy your holiday turkey ? would you have liked it more if you had eaten the whole turkey at once ? let me confess that i found parts of metro entertaining in spite of all of its failings , but tv director thomas carter should return to the medium he knows best . here , he subjugates his movie's best parts to unoriginal , albeit well executed , stunt work . the movie opens promisingly . through a combination of bravado and intelligence , scott gets all of the hostages out alive . at this point in the film i was optimistic about its quality . feldman's forte is choreographing car crashes . unfortunately , every time their romance begins to get interesting and believable , the director yells " cut , " and orders the stuntmen back on the set . murphy plays his character with more compassion that i thought possible for him so the constantly truncated romance is frustrating to watch . i hate it when shows use subplots merely to titillate . scott's habit keeps sidelining the main part of the movie so he can go watch the ponies . this " old pro trains the new hot shot " idea has been done a hundred times before , and metro does nothing new with it . in addition to the excessive reliance on action to carry the movie , there is a problem with the villain . the story would have us believe that he is one of the kill-everyone-in-his-path style criminals , but wincott's lack of passion in the role makes him rarely convincing . for reasons that escape me , the movie had more low bass than jurassic park . i guess that the director has been beside too many teenager's cars and he , like they , equate bass overload with power and sex appeal . in a movie that could have benefited from more humor , scott does get one good one-liner . well , my ears hurt when i left his . now for the promised story on why this screening was so unusual . one of the stars of the show was there live and even stayed afterwards in the lobby so we could meet her . okay , so she was the dog in the movie , but she was cute and this was my first such interaction with a star . the people from " bow wow productions " were there too and showed what a talented dog they had . in the movie the dog is owned by ronnie and appears in quite a number of scenes . metro runs too long at 1 : 57 . the movie drags in the slow parts , and the action sequences go on too long . the film is rated r . there is violence , profanity , brief nudity , but no sex . the show would be fine for teenagers . metro is too frustrating and tiring to recommend , but it does have its moments . i give metro my rating of average , which is * * . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . review written on : january 15 , 1997 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
can a film be saved by its music ? this is the question that i was pondering during the press screening for the plodding adaptation of the non-fiction book " hemingway in love and war : the lost diary of agnes von kurowsky . " outdoor scenes have majestic sounds full of horns and worthy of a vast symphony . in interior scenes we are treated to intimate violin serenades . every scene is filled with intense musical emotion . ah , but then there are those actors . maybe they should have heard the score during the shooting . perhaps the most charitable thing that can be said of the two leads is that they were miscast . certainly the performances they deliver are so insubstantial that they almost vanish upon closer examination . the love story between them is convincing in spurts , but , for the most part , the chemistry does not work . even less effective , and never believable is agnes's romance with the italian doctor domenico caracciolo ( emilio bonucci ) . much is made of their age difference , he being 19 and she being all of 26 , but they look about the same age in the movie so that is one of many aspects of the picture that were never believable . " you know what i've been told ? " remarks agnes in one of the first scenes . " it won't work , " hemingway argues . the cinematography by roger pratt is handsome and warm , but the picture is content to be little more than pleasant . it is never involving . since i did not care about the characters , i resented some of the manipulative parts of the story . agnes and ernest then rig it so that jimmy wins . the love story between agnes and ernest is more hinted at than shown . i like love affairs that are believable and not ethereal . they do not have to be at all explicit to be great , see , for example , the age of innocence , but they must have enough emotional involvement to be convincing . any time you get this many people involved it is a recipe for disaster . perhaps this is the reason the story skims the surface and never invites you to go deeper . next to the miscasting of the leads , the script is the second biggest problem with the film . then there are the endings . for a while i thought the film was never going to end and that it was a special test version to see how long a dozen film critics would sit there in a dark room watching ending after ending before they gave up and left . we all stayed through the four , but a couple more and i might have been tempted to leave . at least toward the end , we do have a cheery note . i'll keep an eye on my watch waiting for that blessed event . " i love you , " says agnes to ernest . " i'll love you as long as i live . " i wanted and expected to feel that way about this film , but i could not . to answer the question i asked in the beginning , perhaps some films can be saved by the music , but not this one . it is rated pg-13 for war wounds and for sexual situations , but no sex or nudity . i do not remember any profanity , but there probably was a little . the film would be fine for kids say ten and up . it is a close call , but i find the film too mediocre to recommend . i give it * * . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . review written on : january 20 , 1997 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
when i went into the press screening of prefontaine , i was excited on several counts . first , and foremost , director steve james's last picture was the great documentary hoop dreams , which he produced and directed . i cannot tell you how much i loved that movie . it easily made the top of my best of the year list for 1994 as it did both siskel's and ebert's . second , it was exciting to see a brilliant documentarian try his hand at his first non-documentary . before i begin commenting of the quality on the film , a warning is perhaps in order . he was great , but i cannot say the same for the film about his life . it was a big disappointment for me . the biggest problem with the movie is the script by steve james and eugene corr . it rarely rings true and is full of trite little phrases . the more obvious , but actually secondary , problem is that james decided to make prefontaine as if it were a documentary . there are numerous cuts to talking heads where the actors with the character's names below them talk as if they were not actors . a little of this might have worked , but combined with the poor script , it came off as terribly stilted . the film's pacing is uneven so that the film frequently drags . many scenes that editor peter frank should have deleted are included . leto has deep blue eyes that seem to engulf the viewer . although physically charming , i had a lot of trouble believing leto was the pre that they talked about . leto smiles excessively and is never convincing as someone who is supposedly so obsessed with winning . his signature role was as sgt . if you recognize his voice , it may be because he did the voice of the sergeant in toy story . in prefontaine he plays his character as too aloof and quirky . except for the great shoes he makes for pre , ermey's coach seems disinterested and fairly useless . my suspicion is that bowerman was more than just the cobbler to which the film relegates him . easily the best part of the picture is when pre is running . too often the film is full of talking heads and short , hallow speeches when it should have been back on the field . the further the film gets away from the track , the more it bogs down . pre has to answer mindless questions from the reporters like , " hey pre , how you going to beat the best of the world on their turf ? " pre's story is reduced to a series of banal sound bites by the script and the editor . the film tries to cast the organization that runs amateur track ( atu ) as a villain , but it makes the atu into such a pillsbury doughboy that it is not particularly effective . " i hate christmas and thanksgiving and easter -- anything that breaks my routine . " many actors are wasted in the film , but none so badly as amy locane , who was excellent last year in her lolita-style part in carried away . most people missed her performance in it , which is a shame . this talented actress is given a part with no substance . very few documentarians are good at making feature length movies . he should stick to what he does best . it is rated pg-13 for two intense , but non-graphic , violent scenes and for some profanity . there was what appeared to be a seven-year-old near me . the movie scared him quite a bit in the intense parts . kids , say nine or ten and up , should be able to handle the movie fine . a close call , but prefontaine is not well made enough for me to recommend it . that i would like to see . i give the movie prefontaine * * . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
although alex's quote has nothing to do with the mystery , it sums up my thoughts about the film . the picture is well acted , but the script by the committee of michel alexandre , pascal bonitzer , gilles taurand , and andre techine is pointlessly obtuse . i love mysteries , but this one was little more than a collection of obscure and fairly unrelated events . once the mystery was solved , my immediate reaction was " so what . " although the performances have technical merit , the script does not create characters worth caring about . the most interesting performance is given by laurence cote as juliette fontana . the story then skips back in time and works its way forward to where the film began . beyond that i cannot say much more without giving away the mystery . since there is precious little else to enjoy in the film , i do not want to reveal anything . i hope you are not as disappointed as i was when you find out the answer . after the natural conclusion of the film , there is a part labeled " epilogue " that is the least interesting part and seems to last forever . although i found the pacing too slow and the cinematography ( jeanne lapoirie ) too dark , the show does have an least one tidbit of useful advice . maybe you can save money on your new bmw and skip that alarm system , the thieves think your mode of transportation is passe . it is in french with english subtitles . the film is rated r for profanity , violence , nudity , and explicit sex . the show would be okay for teenagers if they are quite mature . i was both bored and disappointed by the film so i cannot recommend it . i give the picture * * for the acting . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
this perfectly describes madonna's performance as evita . madonna has " some " style in the role , but not much . perhaps the problem is that madonna's performance is all style . she mugs for the camera , but her acting is rarely convincing and her songs are one disappointment after another . to be fair , the score by andrew lloyd webber has only one decent song . i have talked to critics who did not like evita , and the flames they usually get claim the reason the critics did not like the film is because they really don't like musicals . evita opens in a crowded movie theater in buenos aires . the story treats her as something between a saint and a demigod , and yet , she remains as much an enigma when the movie is over as when it began . i also learned that the military did not like her , and that is about it . the cinematography by darius khondji is incredibly beautiful . everything is bathed in warm earth tones . you may have seen his work before in seven , the city of lost children , and stealing beauty . i predict he will get an academy award nomination for evita . the script has almost every word sung , which might have worked with stronger singers and better songs . it does work when they have musical crowd scenes of people marching with banners unfurled or tanks rolling and soldiers marching . the chorus is good , but the individual singers are not . banderas has a rough singing voice , madonna has a weak one , and jonathan pryce , as juan peron , has none at all . pryce gives up . his " singing " is more like hummed words . for the first ten or fifteen minutes , the show concentrates on the crowd scenes and the visuals . at this point , the film was enjoyable . and then madonna makes her entrance and the whole film starts imploding . as i sat in the theater bored stiff with only the images to admire , i kept thinking : where is oliver stone when you need him ? he was originally slated to direct the film , but through a set of circumstances the director role was given over to alan parker . parker is perhaps best known for mississippi burning , but my favorite picture of his was pink floyd : the wall , which had all of the energy and singing values that evita does not . you can , however , see a similarity between the crowd scenes in evita and the classroom scenes in pink floyd : the wall . still , stone , as much as i have disparaged him in some of his work , might have been able to breathe some much needed life into evita . the scene i will always remember from the show is not one of the excellent crowd sequences , but the first meeting of eva and juan . as the actors sing each other's names , it is so false and so strange sounding musically , that i began to laugh out loud at them . my ever-reliable auto had not done that in twelve years . maybe it was trying to tell me something . maybe i should have listened . evita runs way too long at 2 : 14 . it is rated pg , but given the bloody images i was surprised it was not pg-13 . i think some kids under nine will be scared . i can not recommend evita , but will generously give it * * for the stunning visuals . if i could have turned the sound off , i would have liked it better . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
do you like massive conspiracy thrillers ? well , what better place to center it than right within the white house compound ? the shadow conspiracy , which has all the canonical thriller elements , plays like a typical television movie . if you can't figure out all of the bad guys within the first ten minutes of the film , then you have not been getting your daily adult requirement of mysteries . he figures that , since he is a lame duck , he can launch any initiative he likes . most of his advisers think the speech will sink the stock market and have dramatic , negative repercussions . this setup for the plot happens in the first ten minutes . the " good " guys want bobby to come in , but bobby smells a rat , or rather a mole , or moles . you've seen all of this before and better . if you come to the film expecting nothing and have your brain switched off , the film does provide enjoyable , mental pabulum . a show with never a subtle moment has the requisite thunder and lighting . the music by bruce broughton has variations on the mystery music you've heard a hundred times before . sutherland is awful . you may be sympathetic with his gesture . the worse performance is given by nicolas turturro as grasso , the nsa intelligence expert . turturro's grasso is someone you would not trust to have the brains to park your car . most of the problems with the shadow conspiracy relate to the weakness of the script by adi hasak and ric gibbs . i sincerely hope the others are better . providing all the ingredients of a thriller is not the same as making a thriller . nor will hiring a talented cast guarantee compelling performances . the show reminded me of my mother's fudge when i was a kid . she would put in what she thought were the right ingredients , but it always ended up being a thick , brown soupy concoction . neither did these filmmakers . it is rated r for violence and some profanity . the show is a soft r and would be fine for any teenager . there is not much to the movie so i can not recommend it . better to stay home and watch mediocre television than pay seven bucks to see an unconvincing movie . i give it * * . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . review written on : january 29 , 1997 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
i saw the documentary at san jose's cinequest film festival . this could be considered either the strength or the weakness of the film . orkin was an interesting person . this was one of the first films to be shot on location . she received an academy award nomination for the script . ruth orkin was an interesting woman and a pace setter , but this documentary about her could have been better . it presented the basic facts of orkin's life , but i left thirsting for more knowledge about all the photos we saw in the documentary . i left with little more than a collection of images and some random pieces of historical data . ruth orkin : frames of light runs about 15-20 minutes . it is not rated , but would be a g . it is a close call , but the documentary skimmed the surface too much for me to be able to recommend it . i give it * * . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . review written on : january 31 , 1997 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
herbert's hippopotamus is not kid's show , no matter how silly the title sounds . ( the derivation of the title is less interesting than you might suspect . ) i saw the film as part of san jose's cinequest film festival . i do not believe i appear in the film , but then again , perhaps one of those pixels is me . ) you may remember marcuse . the documentary is one-sided , which is fine -- most are , but i wish it were better constructed . i know that the documentarian wanted me to empathize with marcuse and rage against the system as embodied in then governor reagan , but i could have gotten that by reading the abstract . there are two things i will remember . first , the people in the small audience after the film seemed to share a single opinion . this is a simplistic view that i don't buy . i find this to be ironic . it is not rated , but would be pg for the themes discussed . it would be fine for any kid old enough to be interested . although it is a close call , the film is not cohesive enough for me to be able to recommend it . i give it * * . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
" you mean like now ? like right now ? director richard linklater's marvelous picture before sunrise ( 1995 ) was on my best of the year list in 1995 . she sings and tap dances a foul mouthed routine full of adolescent angst , which she calls the " burger manifesto , part i . " she says it is about racism , sexism and environmentalism . he claims empathy for the oppressed , but sooze laughs this off with , " you've taken one night course about nicaragua at a community college . " prophetically , it starts , " i sound like an idiot . " " i don't need a limousine to know who i am , " says jeff . " at least i know i don't know . " much of the dialog rings true , and yet the characters he creates are not ones you would want to spend ten minutes with , much less two hours . only nazeer is a sympathetic character . most of the characters bogosian concocts are cliches . jeff , for example , makes a wide variety of crude sexual gestures and lies about his sexual escapades to his buddies . since the characters are close to parody , the story might have been better if it had abandoned its pseudo-realism . on the other hand , many of the characters are so pathetic , the show could have been recast into a tragedy . as presented , it is a comedy that is sometimes funny and sometimes insightful , but mainly tedious . even if the acting is mediocre , the quality of the directing by richard linklater comes through . i think he did as much as he could to make the story come alive . after the show meanders for about two hours , bogosian throws in its only creative tension with an ending out of left field . the ending is manipulative , but at least it signaled that my time with these people was finally over . don't change your mind nazeer . suburbia runs way too long at 2 : 00 . it is rated r for alcohol abuse by underage drinkers , sexual references , strong language , and brief male frontal nudity . teenagers will probably like the show and they and people in their twenties are probably the intended audience . still , i do not think the film is acceptable for teens unless they are quite mature . although i had several good laughs , more often i was bored so i give the film thumbs down and * * . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . review written on : february 10 , 1997 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
providing all of the elements of a mystery is not the same thing as actually crafting one . and taking a famous book and bringing it to the screen does not guarantee that the film will be successful . i have not read the book but am told that , although complex , it is not as obtuse as ann biderman's screenplay for the movie . this film is as cold as the landscape and rarely engages the audience . so slow moving , you begin to wonder if the snow's effect on the actors is to blame . as preposterous and ponderous as the story can be , it has great atmosphere and one excellent performance . i have always thought of julia ormond , who was delightful in sabrina , as being an actress with a limited repertoire . her starring role as smilla jaspersen demonstrates she has a much wider acting range than i had imagined . ormond's smilla is a tough and cynical loner . the lack of any credible chemistry between them makes an already unbelievable show even more so . like last year's shadow conspiracy , the story will begin to hint at some massive conspiracy and cover-up . providing easily the worst acting in the picture , richard harris oozes in with a cliche-ridden performance as tork hviid , the head of the infamous greenland mining . vanessa redgrave has a nice bit part as elsa lubing . other than ormond's performance and joergen persson's magnificent cinematography of greenland , the only reason to see the show is the mystery so i will reveal little . suffice it to say that it involves prehistoric worms . on a small note , after our family spent a wonderful time in copenhagen last summer , i was disappointed to see such a gorgeous and colorful city made so gray and depressing . although i understand the film wanted to do this to contrast it with the beauty and freshness of greenland , i found it sad nevertheless . perhaps a better film would have made me more forgiving . smilla's sense of snow runs too long at 2 : 00 . it is rated r for language , some violence and a sex scene . it is a mild r and the film would be fine for any teenager . although there are parts to admire , there is not enough for me to be able to recommend it . i give this cold tale * * . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
crash is an extremely well made but utterly preposterous show . it is so far out that it is off of any scale you can imagine . suffice it to say that it pushes the limits of its nc-17 rating . all of this notwithstanding , the film is a taut thriller that keeps you on the edge of your seat . the day before the press screening of crash , i saw a screening of a film , kissed , about necrophilia . crash's canadian director , david cronenberg , has a taste for films on the edge . perhaps his most widely acclaimed film was the fly , but i am also a fan of the dead zone and dead ringers . well , crash's script was adapted by cronenberg from a semi- autobiographical novel by j . g . ballard . although you may know ballard from another semi-autobiographical novel of his , empire of the sun , his background is more in the science fiction realm . ballard says that , " 'crash' is an autobiographical novel in the sense that it is about my inner life , my imaginative life . " do not publish ! " have you ever thought of car crashes as a mating dance for homo sapiens ? well , ballard did and that's only part of his amoral , sexual fantasies in the film . most of the film he is either engaged in sex or car crashes or both . ( the film does not discriminate . unger is perfectly cast in the role . her vacant eyes had me convinced that she was dead more than once during the film . second would be bodily disfiguration caused by crashes . the car crashes and the sex scenes are quite graphic and realistic . cronenberg delights in gratuitous violence . and yet , the filmmaking is intriguing despite its repugnant aspects . still , if you or a close friend has ever been hurt in a car crash , i would avoid this film like the plague since it will undoubtedly rekindle bad memories . those of us fortunate enough not to be in that position can perhaps look upon the film a bit more dispassionately . i am not making this up as dave barry would say . ) just when you think you've met the weirdest group of characters imaginable , stranger people still come on the scene . vaughan is something of a philosopher . looking like super bowl sunday , these viewers are glued to the screen , watching tapes of car crashes even if the narration is in german . the cinematography by peter suschitzky is alternatively beautiful and gory -- blending shadows , headlights , chrome , sex , and gashing wounds . the sets by carol spier are gritty and almost clinically realistic . the oppressive music by howard shore bristles with tension from the twangy guitar strings . when the half dozen critics left the press screening , each of us found ourselves saying to the other , " drive carefully . " it is rated nc-17 for graphic violence , accident carnage , full frontal nudity , explicit and aberrant sexual content , drug usage , and the list goes on . this show is not appropriate for kids of any age . as a thriller and a piece of filmmaking , crash is quite impressive , but i could never bring myself to recommend this exploitive film . i give it * * . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
" now look at yourself . you could have been someone . you're not even a has been . you're a never was . " these scenes are photographed with shimmering backlights , which is an odd choice . the cinematography of these is evocative of warm and nostalgic memories whereas the story line is flush with pathos . ( the only team with any girls is the ducks , but the script treats the two girls as little more than a plot device . ) the heart of the story is the building of the ducks into a powerhouse . like noah's ark , the ducks have some of each personality type . fulton can hardly skate at all , but when he hits a puck , it goes at the speed of a bullet . his aim is accurate only one time out of five , but his power makes for some funny scenes . the script by steven brill is pure formula and totally predictable . he takes absolutely no chances . my son reminded me several times not to tell you the ending . nevertheless , i suspect you will be able to guess it . afterall , this film has been made many times before , only the sport has been changed . on the positive side , the morals in the film are good , and there are a few nice laughs . the director , stephen herek , would go on later to do the delightful mr . holland's opus , so he has more talent that he demonstrates in this film . oh well , at least the mighty ducks is a safe choice for a video rental for your kids . it is rated pg for a little needless profanity ( e . g . " hell " and " damn straight . " ) it would be fine for kids of all ages . my son jeffrey , almost 8 , thought the film was " super . " although he recommends it , i don't . pleasant enough and never offensive , but it lacks the necessary creative spark . i give it * * . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
for me , australia will always be the land of koalas , beautiful beaches , twangy " english " accents , and delightful romantic comedies . but i guess , every rule is made to be broken . after being charmed by two recent movie imports from down under , all men are liars and hotel de love , i went into love and other catastrophes expecting to see another fun aussie independent film . while not a bad film , love and other catastrophes suffers from terminal triviality . insubstantial films , sirens for example , can be deliciously enjoyable if done with enough imagination and wit , but love and other catastrophes is like a fluffy meringue without any taste . first-time screenwriters helen bandis , yael bergman , and emma-kate croghan tackle the problem of a large cast of leading characters by making them out of interchangeable parts . since the characters and their demeanors are remarkably similar , the writers are able to assign pieces of dialog almost round-robin style among the characters . to continue this modularity , various characters profess to being asexual , bisexual , homosexual , and heterosexual , thus providing an easy tinkertoy approach to building the script . printed quotes from recognized sources are used as scene transitions in an attempt to ameliorate the lack of adequate character development . ( " everything's got a moral , if only you can find it . " -- lewis carroll . " always make the audience suffer as much as possible . " -- alfred hitchcock . ) at other times , the characters will leap from their normal , mindless banter into a pseudo-intellectualism in hopes of obtaining the heretofore missing laughs . two stories are developed to advance the minimal slice-of-life plot . most of the show is as exciting as white bread . although there is a gross scene of a man , listed as " vomit man " in the credits , throwing up in a sink while michael brushes his teeth , the film strives hard never to offend or take any risks . the upbeat and lyrical songs reminded me of those from the graduate . i rarely notice the songs , and when i do , it probably means i am getting bored , which i was . the print we saw had major problems . the colors looked liked washed out sepia , and the backgrounds were overexposed . some of the soundtrack had a problem too . whether this is endemic to all of the prints , i have no idea . the choppy editing by ken sallows reminded me of a print that had been spliced together too often and small parts were now missing . the net result was that it felt like a 60s film that was being rereleased without any restoration . as a film critic , i see just about every film that gets a us distributor and some that never do . i , for one , am growing tired of seeing college students where everyone drinks and smokes dope . surely there are some who abstain from these substances . never in a college age film , do i see anyone who says a simple , " no thanks , i don't do that stuff . " i am not looking for a big statement , just a recognition that not everyone thinks its cool to get drunk and stoned . love and other catastrophes runs an amazingly short 1 : 16 , but i bet you will think it feels longer . it would be fine for older teenagers . flaws and all , the film does a least have an upbeat spirit . still , it never engaged me enough to be able to recommend it . i give a generous * * . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
and yes , stick around because there will be a surprise . written and directed by greg mottola , daytrippers's tone from the beginning is dark , quiet and aloof . mottola's script is much better than his directing . there are many thought provoking little lines , with most of them coming from carl , the story's philosopher . carl and all the characters in the film deliver their lines antiseptically . the director seems to be trying to shut the audience out rather than drawing them it into the story . " i feel it odd to be experiencing such a feeling of joy over a book about spiritual asphyxiation , " she confesses . after an hour and a quarter of dead pan humor that only works in fits and spurts , the film finally comes alive in the last ten minutes . the change is so dramatic that you will swear you can hear the actors' shells breaking . if only the rest of the film had been this genuine . it is rated r for some profanity and sexual references . the film would be fine for teenagers . not a bad movie , but the story is too thin to be able to recommend it to you . i'll give it * * . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
temptress moon ( feng yue ) is a cinematic tone poem from director kaige chen . chen , whose last work was the highly regarded farewell my concubine , contents himself this time with dazzling the audience with a film of stunning beauty . populated by characters who are little more than window dressing , the picture delights the senses , but rarely involves the viewers . the characters are mere portraits on chen's mantle with the viewers becoming voyeurs into the two dimensional world he creates . the obtuse script by kaige chen , kei shu , and anyi wang represents a challenge . like an opera , you need to read the plot outline ahead of time to keep the main characters straight , and even then , some of the minor ones will confuse you . after meticulously following the story , i realized in the end that it didn't matter . the movie's enjoyment comes from its visuals , so concentrating on the plot is a pointless diversion . nevertheless , i will describe some of story's highlights . the movie opens in china in 1911 . from its first scenes the movie overwhelms us with its nostalgic and romantic cinematography . the large and lush green leaves of the plants cut through the darkness as the boat plies its way forward . the pangs are cast as the timothy learys of that era . the story has gotten quite complicated by this point , but don't worry about it . just lean back and enjoy qiagui huang's handsome sets , listen to jiping zhao's longing music , admire william chang and chen changmin's gorgeous costumes and , most of all , soak in the radiance of christopher doyle's incredible cinematography . granted , the film does not have the beauty of shanghai triad , but it comes close . certainly , any film starring as lovely an actress as gong li ( to live and shanghai triad ) is worth seeing for that reason alone . the camera loves her , and , even if she demonstrates little of her considerable acting talent in temptress moon , she has a picture perfect smile . tone poems must be short to be effective . temptress moon wears out its welcome and goes on long past its natural ending point . when the inevitable tragic end occurred , i found myself unmoved and merely glad the movie was finally over . what had started out pleasantly enough had become repetitive and tiresome . temptress moon runs too long at 2 : 00 . the film is in chinese with english subtitles . it would be fine for older teenagers , but i would worry that younger ones would not be able to see through the pro-drug beliefs of the pang family . i enjoyed watching the movie's visuals , but not enough to be able to recommend the film . i give it * * . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
behind this door at your local multiplex we are featuring two shows for the price of one , but not a double feature . nothing worthy of a hitchcock , but a substantive , even if highly derivative , mystery . this part moves surpasses the absurd on its way to the truly ridiculous . so which part wins ? i'll tell you at the end of the review . the owner's carefully worded response is that he has been busy and hasn't seen her , but that he cannot say for sure if she has been there or not . this is merely the setup for the mystery . i will not discuss it further so as not to give anything away . if you've seen the trailers , you already know more than i've told you . his heavy breathing transmits a palpable sense of fright . quinlan needs more subtle roles to bring out her talent . here she is wasted . best is j . t . walsh as the cool , but deadly trucker . he has the aura of an explosion about to happen at any moment , even when he is completely composed . the film's pacing is fast and the tension in the show mounts , thanks to the editing by derek brechin and kevin stitt . they love to shock the audience with a quick cut from a quiet scene to the loud noise of something bad happening . the frequently overpowering music by basil poledouris keeps the film from ever being in danger of having a subtle moment . director jonathan mostow , whose only other theatrical film was beverly hills bodysnatchers , has talent but needs to exercise more self-restraint when it comes to creating action sequences . i promised to reveal which movie won . in an ending that seems like it will never finish , the car chase part overwhelms the mystery part . watching one action cliche after another , the audience's natural reaction to the film's conclusion has to be , " yeah , right ! " it is rated r for terror , violence , and profanity . the show would be fine for most teenagers . until the ending , i was favorably inclined toward the film , but after the demolition derby , i could not recommend this movie to anyone . i give the film * * since the thriller part was well done . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
so what do you get when you cryogenically freeze a blend of 60s spy movies like james bond and tv series like " the avengers " with slapstick comedy and unthaw the mixture today ? with never a subtle moment , myers's acting is always pushing the edge of the comedic envelope . myers also wrote the script which relies on sight gags , like his extra hairy chest , and puns for most of the humor . smashing . yea , capitalism ! " the best part of the picture is the costumes by deena appel . the women have big hairdos and miniskirt outfits with bold colors of pink , lavender , lime green , and red . hello , 60s . equally funny are the sets by cynthia kay charette . circular with a leopard skin bedspread , it rotates while a disco light shines on it . although cleavage is prominently featured , the film does the james bond tease of scrupulously avoiding any actual nudity . myers put a lot of energy into the film's details from the beginning right down to the elaborate action sequence ending , which is set to the music of " secret agent man . " with all of his hard work , it is a shame that the result is a highly imaginative , but surprisingly unfunny movie . cute , certainly , but nothing more . romy and michele's high school reunion used a similar approach and was much funnier . as the ending credits went up , i realized that i had never laughed . a few smiles , but that was it . " there's nothing so pathetic as an aging hipster , " austin says in the film . i couldn't have said it better myself . it is rated pg-13 for sexual situations and profanity . the film would be fine for kids say 10 or 11 and up . i cannot recommend comedies without laughs , but i will give the film * * for the quality of its production . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
with her toothy smile and red curly hair , she looks more like a seductress from a d . h . lawrence novel than a princess . ( although i liked kolya , the academy award winner for best foreign language film last year , my favorite of the nominees remains berit nesheim's the other side of sunday . sadly , it is the only one that still does not have a u . s . distributor . the word action is probably a misnomer since little " action " transpires in a chef in love . the script by andre graill and irakli kvirikadze meanders from one small event to the other with no narrative drive joining them , which is not necessarily bad . with strong acting , characters can imbue any scene with power and relevance . the two leads , richard and presle , in a chef in love , are quite good looking , but their acting in this film is rarely compelling . pascal is both an opera singer and a chef . with a title of a chef in love , i expected many sumptuous scenes of food with lots of close-ups , but the scenes rarely occur , and the cinematography by georgi beridze is pleasing but nothing special . the movie becomes little more than a series of disconnected incidents . none of the film's episodes are involving , and the whole movie left me feeling cold and detached . a handsome film certainly , but i've seen much prettier . even if i credit the film with more beauty than it possesses , the movie is like a meringue -- briefly tasty , but with no substance . it is in french with some georgian , and both are subtitled in english . the film is rated pg-13 for brief nudity and a little profanity . it would be fine for kids say 9 and up . i am not able to recommend the film , but do give it * * for its nice images . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . review written on : may 1 , 1997 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
ever weepy , ex-berkeley hippie dale putley ( robin williams ) has had some exciting news . fathers' day is a remake -- you didn't expect hollywood to waste time trying to generate fresh ideas , did you ? -- of the 1983 french film les comperes . the setup for fathers' day takes place in the first twenty minutes of the picture . the script by lowell ganz and babaloo mandel then proceeds to tread water until the requisite feature length movie time has elapsed . besides running out of gas , the film has other problems too . charlie hofmeimer , playing the central figure of the boy , gives such a lethargic performance that it becomes hard to care what happens to him . of course , people come to see fathers' day for only one reason , the considerable comic talents of williams and crystal . williams , the more unreliable of the two actors , does his usual shtick . as williams gets older so does his routine . williams has a single character now , and he recasts his role in every movie so he can do it again . crystal , whom i normally love , is not given much to work with . although he does have a good line every now and then , he has less jokes in the entire movie than in his opening monologue at the oscars . perhaps the real surprise of the movie is nastassja kinski's return to a significant , albeit small , part in a major american movie . her part in fathers' day is just enough to make you want to see her cast in a more substantial role . ( even more surprising perhaps is mel gibson's uncredited cameo as a walking ad for body piercing . ) producer and director ivan reitman ( kindergarten cop , dave , and junior ) generally has a deft touch when it comes to comedy , but his fathers' day manages only sporadic bits of humor . if there weren't so many funnier shows in current release , it might be worth recommending , but as it is , you are better off waiting to rent it so you can fast forward to the few funny parts . it is rated pg-13 for sexuality and profanity and would be fine for kids say 9 or 10 and up . i cannot recommend the film , but will give it * * for a few good laughs . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . review written on : may 7 , 1997 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
stapleton gives easily the freshest and most delightful performance of the film . she is so low key and convincing that you may want to take up your problems with her . amazingly , it works perfectly . sissy spacek plays their original mommy as well as their three new ones -- mama , mom , and natasha . the movie is little more than a vehicle for spacek to show off her acting talents . surprisingly , they seem quite modest . mama is a cruella de vil type . they look good on display but have fatal flaws in real operating conditions . spacek needlessly turns the show from a fairy tale into a slapstick comedy . if writer and director tia brelis could have reigned spacek in more , the show might have been able to deliver better on its promise . the kids' parts are never adequately developed as spacek is kept on center stage . anna chlumsky from the my girl series shows promise but her character , like the other children's ones , is not well drawn . trading mom provides totally harmless family fare , but little more . the idea is worthy of the brothers grimm . it is rated pg and would be fine for kids of all ages . my son jeffrey , age 8 , thinks the movies is funny . there is not enough to be able to recommend it , but i do give it * * . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . review written on : may 16 , 1997 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
" don't ask why . just take out your pen and write on my arm . " " it reminds me of the scent of skin . " ) greenway is a cinematic stylist whose best known film is perhaps the movie with the enormous title of the cook the thief his wife & her lover . greenway in recent interviews has been railing against the power and the homogeneity of american movies . his films are certainly like no others . in the pillow book , which he wrote , directed , and co-edited , he creates a sumptuous movie in montage . most scenes make heavy use of picture-in-picture techniques , thus making the movie screen look like some feature laden television . part of the film is shot in letterbox with a larger black band at the bottom holding the english subtitles . this asymmetric letterboxing is a projectionist's nightmare . ours almost got tricked . the bizarre story can be followed if you pay close attention , but it is merely a sideshow . the movie exists to show off calligraphy on skin as an art form and to dazzle the viewers with sights and sounds . the best part of the film is the music by brian eno . all of it has a haunting beauty . the french folk songs have subtitles that flow by sing-a-long style in order to focus the audience on the music . the story is a conundrum but with periodically interesting vignettes . >from this comes the tradition of writing on people's torsos . most scenes are off the scale , any scale . it gets even more ludicrous once jerome gets naked in the publisher's office . the film sets a record for the number of shots of male frontal nudity in a non-pornographic film . none of the scenes are erotic and only a few are meant to be . besides the ridiculous story , the movie's other problem is the acting . the actors do not try to be convincing , and the director seems happy to have them all on autopilot . he approaches the film stock as a canvas upon which he will paint a beautiful and shocking portrait . narrative has little importance to him . the pillow book would make a wonderful short film . trimmed down to twenty or thirty minutes , i could easily praise it . as is , it becomes an incredibly long exercise in style . it is not rated but would probably be nc-17 as it contains large amounts of complete nudity as well as explicit sex and one scene of drug abuse . although i was impressed by parts of the filmmaking , i cannot recommend the picture . i give it * * for its impressive and unusual sights and sounds . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . review written on : june 5 , 1997 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
in 1991 , disney developed that idea into a movie called the rocketeer . a happy-go-lucky time , full of lavish nightclubs and barnstorming aviators . marilyn vance-straker's costumes for cliff are a delightful reinterpretation of those worn by buck rogers . the sets by james d . bissell capture a glamour that probably never existed except in our minds . james horner's music stays energetic and sugary sweet . one gets the sense that all of the cast and crew viewed the film as a romp . in good buck rogers fashion , which is the series the show most closely resembles , logic goes out the window . anyone wearing the rocket would have a barbecued rear and legs . the illogical aspects are not germane since the story stays totally in fantasyland . the problem with the film is that it is nothing more than an exercise in whimsical style . nothing in the narrative is compelling . in place of a story we have antics . cliff goes through all of the canonical gags including shooting out-of-control through a clothesline of freshly washed clothes . one gets tired of recycled comedy . still the scenes of soaring with the rocket are great fun , and they are fresh . well , fresh if you are too old to remember early science fiction movies . the biggest failing of the film is the casting of the lead . it is easy to see why bill campbell has never been given an important movie role before or since . campbell has no personality so his acting detracts from instead of enhancing cliff's persona . arkin , dalton , and connelly give nice performances , but all have done much better work . director joe johnson seems happy to let the actors in the film drift just so long as the atmosphere stays completely nostalgic . exercises in style like this are rarely enough for adults , although they can be enough to satisfy younger viewers . but not too young since tommy guns blast everywhere , and scores of people die in the film . nevertheless , the picture keeps its violence mainly at the cartoon level . and the acting too . it is rated pg although given the level of violence , pg-13 might have been more appropriate . the film should be fine for most kids say 7 or 8 and up , but be careful if they are sensitive to violence . my son jeffrey , age 8 , thought the movie was " good . " there is not enough for me to be able to recommend the movie . i give it * * . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . review written on : june 2 , 1997 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
welcome to the silly season . ( some price tags being slightly less . ) serious movies avoid the heat of summer when people's brains are fried . this diminution of mental capacity causes movie goers to flock to blockbusters promising even louder explosions than the film the week before . remember the car chase in it that felt like it was on a moebius strip and would never end ? well , that was subtle filmmaking compared to the fireworks style extravaganza that ends his latest picture con air . the worst part of the conclusion is that when you breathe a slight of relief that this repetitive and overly long film is finally over , it isn't . but i am getting ahead of myself . as one who has sat through con air , it is easy to dwell on the ending credits since that means you can leave . still , along the way , scott rosenberg's script does have many good one-liners to amuse us , and con air works best as a comedy . you've seen all of the stunts and special effects before so there is little left to focus on other than the acting , which stays at the comic book level , and the dialog . i kept thinking that if their budget were cut in half , they would have made a better picture . if the special effects department were put on a much stricter budget , the show might have had to develop the characters beyond caricature . a frequent complaint about movies is that the villain is not strong enough , but here the movie is populated by a plethora of bad guys . the hero of the picture is cameron poe played by nicolas cage , the great character actor from leaving las vegas who seems to be slumming by taking this part . get the point . these guys are bad , bad , bad . or as cameron puts it , " somehow they managed to get every creep and freak in the universe on this one plane . " " all we have to worry about is stale peanuts and a little bit of turbulence . " for the three people in the world who haven't seen the trailers and know nothing of the movie , this line is a tip off that all hell is about to break loose . if you want to have fun in the picture , bring a pad and keep a count of the story's illogical aspects . it's one little pistol that the pilot keeps in a locked box in the cockpit . but boy-oh-boy do lots of people die anyway . in order to appeal to women , the movie was supposedly softened up by cage's adding little family touches like his stuffed bunny . disney is marketing the film's almost non-existent love story angle in an attempt to broaden the demographics of the audience . even religion enters the picture when cameron tells his dying buddy , " i'm going to show you that god does exist . " like a roulette player that plays it safe by betting on all the numbers , this movie does not miss anything . although i had fun listening to the dialog , the show is pure balderdash and about as imaginative as saturday morning cartoons . a rock 'em , sock 'em , meaningless time at the movies . it is rated r for strong violence and language . the violence was cartoonish enough so that the film is probably acceptable for most teenagers . i cannot recommend the show although i did laugh often enough to give it * * . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . review written on : june 6 , 1997 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
whereas steven spielberg's original jurassic park filled viewers with awe over the grandeur of nature , his sequel , the lost world : jurassic park , achieves 134 minutes of tedium . after a long and boring introduction , the movie slips into its rhythm of attack , lull , attack . the mean time between dinosaur attacks gets shorter and shorter until we have one every other minute . those subscribing to the more-is-always-better philosophy may enjoy spielberg's overkill , but most viewers will probably find the film more tiring than scary . the two films look different as well . the original had gorgeous cinematography by dean cundey . the sequel , as filmed by janusz kaminski , is strikingly ugly . every scene looks flat and dirty as if the camera lens had gotten too much jungle grime on it . the strikingly bad camerawork is a shame since the best part of the film , and the only reason to see it , are the impressive special effects . the result is even more realistic images than last time . this can best be seen when the humans interact close-up with the dinosaurs in the same frame . moore brings nothing to her underwritten role , and goldblum plays a type of character he has done many times before , but he seems to have lost interest . eighty percent female you see . giving him a yeah-right look , malcolm retorts , " no , you're making all new ones . " i'll discuss more of these problems later . " let's get this moveable feast underway . " as realistic as the dinosaurs are , the attacks come so often that i never found them scary . the choreography of this , and only this , scene is worthy of a hitchcock . now , about the film's absurd aspects . let me give just a few . would you take an injured t-rex baby back to your trailer knowing full well that his parents will smell his scent and hear his cries ? if you were camping out among carnivorous dinosaurs , would you stay at the edge of the camp listening to loud music on your headphones , oblivious to the sounds of attacking dinos ? would you wander off from the others just to go to the bathroom ? would you sleep with a light on in your tent if you knew that hungry t-rexs are roaming nearby ? at some point in this story you will crack . the sum total of its stupidity will overwhelm you , and you will burst out in laughter . not too much . he gets his flash camera and takes a picture . " this is going to be bad . " it is rated pg-13 for dinosaur violence with people eaten alive and body parts strewn everywhere . the movie is fine for teenagers , but kids under 13 will need strong stomachs . as a rule of thumb , i'd say if they can handle jurassic park with no problems , they would be okay for the sequel , but if the original troubles them at all , pass on its sequel . i cannot recommend this mess and give it just barely * * for the great special effects and for postlethwaite's performance . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . review written on : june 7 , 1997 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
having an extremely famous and revered subject who is willing to grant you extensive interviews can sometimes be a mixed blessing for filmmakers . first-time feature length documentarians angus gibson and jo menell received such an opportunity to speak with nelson mandela . the resulting film , mandela , is all too reverential and slow paced . the heart of the film is a long interview with mandela . a talking head can become monotonous , so editor andy keir cuts to some old film footage to illustrate some of the points mandela makes . these clips are almost all teasers . the success of good documentarians is based mainly on the probing nature of their ( usually offscreen and unheard ) questions and on how resourceful they are in gathering exciting archival materials . gibson and menell do not seem particularly adept at either . there are few opposing points of view in the picture , and the questions are all softballs for mandela . the film makes his life seem too easy and preordained . the film's approach glosses over troubles with the result that mandela's rise to power appears all too simple . dewald aukema and peter tischhauser's cinematography of rich golds and browns illustrate the beauty of the land of which mandela is so justifiably proud . in a slow show with little contrast or tension , there is a brief excerpt of a speech by then south african president p . w . botha . " don't push us too far ! don't push us too far ! " the ludicrousness of his speech makes a good counterpoint to mandela , but it is one of the few pieces of heightened emotions in the movie . an infinitely better picture was the winner , leon gast's when we were kings about muhammed ali , which shows how powerful and riveting a documentary can be . mandela starts with a great man , but its timid approach makes for a rarely compelling film . it is rated pg for images of violence , brief nudity and some profanity . the show would be fine for kids around nine and up . mandela drags too much for me to be able to recommend it , but it does have its moments . i give it * * . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
this one , honey , we shrunk ourselves , is a direct-to-video version released this year . he'd rather be taught batting skills than learn the pythagorean theorem . if you've seen any of the other films in the series , you could probably write the script as well as this one by karey kirkpatrick , nell scovell , and joel hodgson . they use almost a computer generated approach , picking and choosing various parts of the last two ( three if you count the one shown only at disney's epcot center ) and slightly modifying the plot elements so that there are no exact duplications . the result is a somewhat satisfying but all too repetitive story . if you've never seen any of the others , you'll probably like honey , we shrunk ourselves better than those of us who have seen all four . as in all of the shows , one of the delights of the picture is all of the gadgets wayne has in his house . at the sound of the beep , please leave your message , your fax , or your binary file . " ) the setup for this version has kooky inventor wayne about to donate his incredible shrinking machine to the smithsonian . unbeknownst to them , their parents are there , just too tiny to be seen . as always , girls attract boys like flies to honey , but all of the movie's teenagers are exceedingly nice . even the bad kids look like honor student potentials . the show treats her put-down of the boy , whom she desired so much a few minutes earlier , as a big deal . the poor boy , who is guilty of not understanding every nuance of the dating protocol , looks like he has just been caught shoplifting . although some of jenny's actions make little sense , actress allison mack shows considerable promise and the camera loves her little smiles . the special effects are fairly straightforward , but the attacking cockroach and the helpful daddy longlegs are particularly well done . most of the dialog is too light-weight and unbelievable . the whole show is like this -- a pleasant , inoffensive retelling of the shrunken people story . honey , we shrunk ourselves runs only 1 : 15 . it is rated pg probably for the cockroach's sneer . the show would be fine for all ages although the younger ones may be scared by the two minute cockroach scene . my son jeffrey , age 8 , thought the show was " great . " i've seen it all before so i cannot recommend it . it is worth * * for the cute scientific gadgets . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
the designated mourner is the film equivalent of that assignment . since it was written by wallace shawn , who also wrote the famous and successful my dinner with andre , his latest film comes with impressive credentials . my dinner with andre set the gold standard for film talkfests with its imaginative and enlightening dinnertime conversation between two friends , wallace shawn and andre gregory . with perhaps three viewings , one might be able to decipher some of the designated mourner's nuances . with only one , understanding it , and more importantly caring about it , becomes a challenge . whether the material is worth the effort is problematic . filmed by oliver stapleton in harsh lights and shadows , the lighting has the same standoffish effect as the dialog , which is univitingly cold . behind the chairs are blurry lights so that the attention is drawn to the large heads that fill the screen . nichols gets most of the lines so the film's success rests mostly on his shoulders . gray has a compelling storytelling ability that nichols lacks . although snippets of the dialog have power , most serve only to obscure and befuddle . well , if that is so , then this movie will leave many starving . the film , based on a play by wallace shawn , does have a story or at least the brief sketches of one . however , the story is little more than a plot device to let jack babble along at a breakneck pace . whereas gray talks to us , jack ramblings seem more directed to himself . a recurring subtheme revolves around the trials and tribulations of the male sexual organ , with its name used frequently for shock effect . " i guess , i've always been a low-brow at heart , " reflects jack in his big conclusion scene . there is a good chance that you may feel similarly left out . the designated mourner runs 1 : 35 , which might seems short but it was long enough to put one of the four critics in our private screening to sleep . he snored through some of it , but missed little -- it's that sort of a movie . i cannot recommend this inaccessible film , but i do give it * * for its risk taking and a valiant effort . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
tim burton is an imaginative filmmaker with an obsession for the visual aspects of films , especially the darker motifs . as the lead , burton again cast keaton , but the script by sam hamm and warren skaaren has a robin who is awol . when reviving a series or a movie , there should be an idea of what new can be said . they are ugly without form or purpose , but they do create just the right mood of hopelessness and despair that burton wanted . ( an experiment worth making would be to turn off the sound and see if the movie has just about as much impact , which it probably would . ) batman is a celebration of form over story . keaton's batman is serious and broody . the chemistry between keaton and basinger never becomes believable . batman is too cerebral to care , and vale too untouchable to really get involved . regardless of what transpires , their love appears like little more than unconvincing flirting . the joker gets most of the film's few good lines . other than the comic book story and the sets , the only other things else worth seeing are batman's toys . if franz kafka had ever made a comic book , it would undoubtedly resemble this version of batman - dark and depressing , but holding a certain undeniable fascination nevertheless . batman runs too long at 2 : 06 . it is rated pg-13 for its cartoonish violence . my son jeffrey , age 8 , liked it , but not nearly as much as his favorite , batman forever . as much as i admire the technical details of the film , i cannot recommend the movie , but i do give it * * for its visual impact . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . 
where are good old-fashioned expulsions when you need them ? these are just a few of the provocative questions the movie 187 shouts at us . directed by kevin reynolds with few subtleties , the film asks all the right questions , but with its billy jack approach it rings false even when making some sense . sure . the star of both is the wonderful samuel l . jackson from pulp fiction . the original script starred a white teacher , but jackson wanted the part so he could change the focus from race to kids' dealing with an authority figure . jackson's performance in the film manages to rise above the absurdities of the story . his transformation from idealistic to timid to vengeful has an honesty to it that the rest of the picture never musters . " let's go people ! " " you're just a sub . " most are full of unprintable expletives , but none get benny in any trouble . after an implausible first half , the film loses all credibility in the second . filmed by ericson core in harsh lighting and sepia toned colors , the movie seems to have the words " important message " emblazoned on every scene . scott yagemann's script , while considering admittedly important material , pushes believability to the limits , even if the credits remind us that the film " was written by a teacher . " this picture has a message and it wants to beat us over the head with it . rather than enlightening , the film leaves the viewers cynical and disgusted . 187 is a disturbing film that will stay with you long after you leave the theater . 187 runs too long at 2 : 01 . it is rated r for profanity , brief nudity , drug usage , and realistic violence . the film is appropriate for teenagers only if they are older and mature since the message is too strong and too easily misconstrued . the show considers important issues , but its presentation is too stridently unrealistic to recommend it . i give it * * for jackson's performance and for good questions . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
yes , it's b movie time . in 1958 , writer stirling silliphant -- whose name sounds like a playful pseudonym but who is actually the academy award winning writer of in the heat of the night -- and director don siegel gave the world the imminently forgettable the lineup . based on a popular tv series of the time , the trite dialog sounds like lines " dragnet " would have rejected for not having enough punch . the plot has possibilities , but the execution is quite risible . the conundrum is whether mr . dressler knew about the heroin or not . remember , this was a time of low technology and hence especially easy smuggling . the show is laced with " memorable " lines . aside from laughing at the dialog , the film provides other pleasures , the chief one being that of seeing key san francisco landmarks -- war memorial opera house , steinhart aquarium , and others -- as they looked forty years ago . toward the end , the plot takes some interesting twists before it dissolves into a formula chase scene . " you'll get us out of here and get us out of here fast . " so why didn't i mention the lineup you ask ? because it was there but was so inconsequential to the story line that it wasn't even worth bringing up . the lineup runs a blazingly fast 1 : 00 , which is about the right length . it is not rated but would certainly get a g . saturday morning cartoons are more violent , and drugs are only mentioned but not shown . kids of any age could watch it , but anyone less than 12 would probably not understand the humor in it all . the film is not quite worth recommending , but it is fun to laugh at . i give it * * . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . review written on : august 16 , 1997 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
hoodlum is an exceedingly handsome movie , all dressed up with no place interesting to go . the costumes by richard bruno ( the untouchables ) are gorgeous , especially the dark suits set off by wide brimmed white hats . the striking cinematography by frank tidy ( under siege ) uses sharp contrast black and white complemented by saturated colors . and academy award winning composer elmer bernstein's music is full of soulful trumpets and foreboding piano solos . even the acting , with the exception of the embarrassingly poor performance by cicely tyson as the queen of harlem , is superb . but the gangster party they throw bogs down frequently and seems like it will never end . director bill duke and editor harry keramida have no sense of focus . numerous pointless scenes that should have been left on the cutting room floor are included and others long overstay their welcome . this is not to say that the film is without merit . although first-time writer chris brancato's script never gels , the performances by the actors frequently manage to rise above the mediocrity of the material . ( the story , which the press notes are careful to point out is complete fiction , uses historical characters . the story surrounds a character known as " bumpy " johnson , played with impressive style by laurence fishburne . andy garcia plays lucky luciano like a figure straight out of a fashion shoot for gq . each of these talented actors are academy award winners or nominees . with lesser actors , the picture would have been little more than a fashion show and , when the inevitable warfare breaks out , a long bloodbath . the screenwriter feels compelled to give bumpy an almost saint-like aura . the camera loves him too with his thin mustache and his captivating little smile . the script lacks much story telling ability , but when it tries to mimic pulp fiction , it is at its best . hoodlum runs incredibly long at 2 : 22 -- a half hour less would have improved the film immensely . the show is rated r for massive gore , profanity , and full frontal nudity . it would be acceptable for mature teenagers . i admired parts of the show , but not enough to recommend it . i give it * * . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
" hey daddy , what are you doing ? " the star of the film is a highly likable but completely crazy sean penn as eddie , jeanie's father . although the rape happens off camera and the scene cuts away quickly , it is one of several parts of the film that can be hard to take . " can you sew ? can you dance ? what can you do ? " nick cassavetes , whose unhook the stars earlier this year was beautiful and uplifting , at least knows how to stage scenes well in this disquieting film . the scene seems about as unbelievable as the rest of the film , but visually it certainly shocks the audience into paying attention . although the people in the film drink and smoke constantly , maureen gives the impression that she mainlines caffeine as well . the show has such excellent actors as harry dean stanton , debi mazar , sally kellerman , james gandolfini , and gena rowlands in the minor roles . although all the actors accomplish what they set out to do , only sean penn gives an exceptional performance . still , you have to ask yourself if these are people you want to spend a couple of hours with . you may feel the same way when the ending credits release you from your time with these unhappy alcoholics . she's so lovely runs 1 : 52 . the show would be acceptable only for the most mature teenagers . i admired the performances but did not like the film enough to recommend it . i give it * * . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
" i look at this town , and i don't like what i see , " remarks the sheriff of the backwater town of garrison , new jersey . much has been written about how the ever-buff stallone bloated out in order to nab the part . although it can be argued that this shows his talents as a serious actor , any other actor giving such a remote performance would more likely have been criticized than praised . nevertheless , the critics have heaped accolades on stallone's work in cop land , since it shows he can do more than action flicks . granted , but his range in cop land is even more limited than in his usual superhero roles . the confusing narrative rarely takes the time to delve into any motivation or character development , and it is easy to see why . the script by the director , james mangold , has as many characters as a balzac novel , so there is little time to devote to any of them , which is a shame since the story has promise . a sheriff who ignores all the major lawbreaking around him so he can concentrate on domestic disputes , kid's arguments , and improperly placed garbage could have become a compelling character study about a person with misplaced values . the movie needs a more tightly focused story that concentrates on just a few characters and gives them some meaningful dialog . perhaps the saddest aspect of the making of this film is all of the wasted talent . like a sports team owner awash in cash , producers cary woods , cathy konrad , and ezra swerdlow signed up so many excellent actors that even the most minor parts are filled with highly capable people . the screenplay , however , gives the actors little to work with . all the characters suffer from being too one-dimensional . still , with a cast this strong , the show does have its moments and could never be called a bad show even if the director's pacing is glacial . with a more lively production , the holes in the story could have been ignored , but the cost of the director's slow gate is that the audience has more time to dwell on the film's improbabilities . take just one . if you like to see homages to classic old films , then cop land will not disappoint . it made up for these deficiencies by creating flesh-and-blood characters rather than unfilled-in sketches . " how do you think this makes me look , " complains freddy to an nypd cop flaunting his lawbreaking for the world to see . the director seems to be saying that to the audience . you're to ignore the movie's flaws . what more could you want ? it is rated r for violence , profanity , and brief nudity and would be fine for most teenagers . i liked parts of the picture but not enough to recommend it . i give it * * . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
indie films are in . presenting at film festivals and trying to connect with key people in the film industry are fledgling filmmaker's equivalent of buying lottery tickets . stabile went on to hit it even bigger with a two picture deal from steven spielberg's dreamworks studio . and you thought horatio alger stories were dead . i've seen many directors more deserving that stabile , whose first film feels too much like a cheap quentin tarantino knockoff , but i'm happy to see someone who does show talent getting a chance at fame and fortune . ( now , if budding film critics could just get such opportunities , . . . ) his insightful and touching voice-over makes the film special , and he speaks from the heart about life in gravesend . if his writing of the rest of the movie were of the same caliber , the film would have been worth recommending . as it , the picture demonstrates his promise as a writer and director but little more . the surprisingly professional acting is marred by the script's lack of focus and direction . the film does have a few memorable lines . stabile's percipient reflection on zane , the show's hothead , is one of the best . " zane wasn't well liked , " he remarks . the best they can do is get jo-jo to bury it for $500 and a thumb -- mark's thumb , which upsets ray's sense of propriety . it is rated r for violence , profanity , and pot and cocaine usage . teenagers should go only if they are both older and mature . i can't recommend the film , but i do think it is worth * * . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
although the story sounds like a children's wilderness yarn , this one was written for an older crowd . in a minor subplot , there may or may not be a love triangle and an associated murder plot . from the show's trailers possible murderous intentions seem to be the heart of the film , but they aren't . the biggest surprise in the film are the names of the writer and the director . the writer , david mamet , is one of the best screenwriters and playwrights working today . the director , lee tamahori , burst onto the movie scene with his uniformly praised once were warriors . ( granted , his only other film , mulholland falls , is an unmemorable exercise in style . ) together these brilliant men have managed to fashion a mediocre tale of wilderness survival . the only outstanding part of the movie is the breathtaking , aerial cinematography by donald mcalpine , whose previous picture was last year's gorgeous romeo + juliet . the rest of the film , although pleasant enough , has little to recommend it . morse is played with his usual charm by anthony hopkins in the only interesting performance in the film . baldwin plays his role rather laconically instead of imbuing his character with the mystery called for . " because they didn't do the one thing that would save their lives -- thinking . " well , charles does their thinking for them , including creating a compass from the raw materials at hand . the picture has numerous hard-to-believe sequences , but none more so that the many confrontations with the bear , played by " bart the bear . " i hate to disparage an animal actor , but he looked too much like the singing animatronic bear from disneyland's country bear jamboree to be frightening . maybe bart needed better lines . for a wilderness film , it has less tension than most . if the studio had misplaced this movie , not much would have been lost . and , except for the undeniably beautiful setting , there is little worth trying to save . it is rated r for a few gory scenes and some profanity . the film would be fine for teenagers . although beautiful to behold , there is not enough compelling material to make the picture worth recommending . i give it * * . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
a book with all the right ingredients does not a script make . nor will the casting of great acting talent a movie make . it takes more than the right raw materials to fashion a compelling film narrative . certainly , in the film a thousand acres director jocelyn moorhouse started off with many blessings . what it lacks is more than sketchy motivation for the characters' actions . the performances by pfeiffer and lange are excellent even if the script dulls your interest in the characters they play . robards gives a sometimes chilling performance as the stern father with a laser-like glare , whose alcoholism rapidly transforms into madness . only the usually reliable jennifer jason leigh gives a disappointing performance . " we're not going to be sad , " advises rose to ginny . therein lies the problem with the film's presentation . the characters mope around , whining about their woes , but rarely work up anything approaching anger . the story drifts along on a dreamy cloud . even the show's most dramatic scene , in which the sisters discusstheir sexual abuse as children , is strangely ineffectual . perhaps because of the story's plodding pace and large plot holes , this potentially powerful scene leaves one dispassionate when it should have been emotionally draining . each character remains little more than an outline so that , when the wives have affairs , the audience does not become emotionally involved . the ending has one character making a totally unbelievable decision and another giving us a tear-jerker . both left me unmoved . it is rated r for nudity , profanity , and mature themes . it would be fine for mature teenagers . although the acting by pfeiffer and lange is uniformly fine , the rest of the movie isn't so i give it thumbs down and * * . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
fire , director deepa mehta's film of indian middle-class passions and constraints , stars the lovely actresses nandita das as sita and shabana azmi as radha . their simplistic tale of woe will elicit your compassion , but the thin story wanes by the second half , leaving little to remember except for a . r . actually , all of the men in the story ignore the women unless they want something like their next meal . in contrast , the film's heterosexual liaisons are made to look harsh and brutal , which in this story they are . although the acting is pleasant enough , the script by the director suffers from a paucity of ideas . his characters are handsomely outlined but never adequately filled in . after a strange ending with an ambiguous and confusing message , the ending credits roll . the lasting impression of the film is not of people but of images . it is in english and is not rated but would be r for sex , brief nudity , and mature themes . it would be acceptable for teenagers only if they are older and mature . although it is a handsome film , there is not enough compelling content for me to be to be able to recommend it . i give it * * . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
unfortunately , as a story , it flags much more often than it inspires . although it hits many of the highlights of recent tibetan history , the vacuousness of becky johnston's script , based on heinrich harrer's autobiographical book , leaves one strangely unmoved . in good hollywood fashion , the movie has a twin so perhaps the other tibetan film this year will prove to have more substance . with a sometimes all too cute austrian accent , he delivers as much as can be expected in such an underdeveloped and overlong production . david thewlis from black beauty plays peter with precision but little emotion . the genuinely harrowing visuals of their climbs provide the few completely captivating moments of the film . as an apolitical figure , heinrich is non-plussed . " i have nothing to do with your silly war , " he tells his captors . these excessively cute scenes dominate the story's latter half , and the almost total destruction of tibet seems , in contrast , almost tacked on as an afterthought . except for the mountain climbing sequences , french director jean-jacques annaud ( the bear ) has as much trouble with the action sequences as the more intimate moments . the film's few minutes of war footage are filmed by robert fraisse in a blur with the rapid pans of a purposely shaky , handheld camera . the effect of this choreography leaves the audience more confused than moved . most movies have a part where suspension of disbelief is essential . the story is not without its humor as when the workers stop construction of the dalai lama's movie palace . " i wish it long . " the film's epic length is the audience's torture . one gentlemen in ours snored loudly in a soporific protest of the film's languid pace . the show has no ending . " do you think someday people will get tibet on their movie screens and wonder what happened to us ? " asks the dalai lama at one point in the story . it was a sadly prophetic question that hopefully the other tibetan film this year will be able to address much better than this mediocre one . it is rated pg-13 for war violence and mature themes . the film would fine for kids nine and up , but will probably bore those under 13 . i loved the film's grandeur , but found the text too insubstantial to be able to recommend the picture . i give the film * * for the picturesque images . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . review written on : october 10 , 1997 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
inauspicious beginnings have doomed many a film . so it is with first time director jeb stuart's switchback . switchback opens with the classic a-stranger-is-in-the-house scene so popular in slasher movies and cheap thrillers . and to make sure that he hooks the audience , stuart , who wrote the script for switchback as well as much better films such as the fugitive , carefully includes a child endangerment aspect to the opening . quaid , who frequently has trouble demonstrating much dynamic range as actor , approaches his role in this film with a singleness of purpose . and his terse elocution borders on parody . absent his performance and with a director more adept at staging scenes , the movie would have been much better . the supporting cast almost carries the show . bob goodall , the car's owner , has decorated every inch of his automobile with pictures of naked women -- even the seat belts are covered . then again , one learns in films of this caliber never to discount the minor character or even the one not yet seen as the killer . switchback runs too long at 2 : 01 . it is rated r for violence , profanity , and pinup pictures . the film would be fine for most teenagers . 
" have you ever felt like you're not in control of your life ? " robert , you see , has been having a hard time coping lately . it seems a robot could do his work cheaper and faster . celine , a more than slightly deranged rich kid , favors such pastimes as using big guns to shoot apples off her butler's head . diaz has delighted audiences in little films like the last supper as well as in glitzy productions such as my best friends wedding with a wide acting range from bitingly bitchy to cloyingly sweet . in all of them her charm never fades . in a nice bit of complementary casting , mcgregor plays opposite diaz . diaz even manages to keep a straight face when celine gets lines like , " love is merely a physical adaptation to an emotional necessity . " as interesting as the plot setup is and as fine as the performances are by the leads , the film limps along at best . director danny boyle , in his first movie since his hit comedy about heroin addicts , trainspotting , has trouble staging compelling scenes . with the remarkably unfunny script by john hodge , who also worked on trainspotting , the storyline becomes little more than bizarre . the subplot of their using dastardly means to force the two leads into true love probably sounded promising on paper , but as delivered , it is as flat and uninviting as the rest of the film . with such a hopelessly underdeveloped and muddled plot , the most surprising aspect of the picture is that diaz and mcgregor remain unscathed . even if you hate the film , which is quite likely , you leave admiring two troopers who poured their hearts and souls into a hopeless project . in the film's single totally captivating moment , a delightful musical number with the two of them singing and dancing to a karaoke playing " beyond the sea , " diaz and mcgregor are able to show what the chemistry between them could have produced . but the film , a life less ordinary , is exactly that . ordinary would have been an improvement . a life less ordinary runs 1 : 43 . it is rated r for violence and profanity and would be fine for older teenagers . 
with a creepy calm , tamara tunie as the adult voice of eve batiste , sets a serious tone for the story . with the ending murder foretold from the opening moment , one expects first-time writer and director kasi lemmons to slowly ratchet up the tension until the deadly event . the only surprise in the film is its genre . after sketching the outline of a thriller , lemmons fills in the boxes with a feel-good sitcom . with the packed theater at the screening laughing on cue , the movie felt exactly like an insubstantial television comedy with the audience supplying the laugh track . typical jokes include the one about the kid who picks up a dead snake that isn't dead afterall -- they're mildly funny , but you've seen them all before . although preposterous , eve believes it at first . similarly , the writer tries periodically to remind the audience of the ominous events yet to come . don't laugh too hard ; a murder will soon be at hand . some of the light touches in the show are nice . poor mozelle is upstaged by someone with a genuine gift for prognostication , and who would like to snuff out cheap fakes like mozelle . " sometimes i think there's no point at all , and that's the point , " mozelle tells eve . notwithstanding its strikingly dramatic beginning and ending , eve's bayou , like a typical sitcom , has no point either . it is rated r for sex , nudity , violence and profanity . this fairly mild film would be fine for teenagers . 
in the 1990s , lumet's films ( q & a , a stranger among us , guilty as sin , and night falls on manhattan ) have all been disappointments , even if each has had parts worth treasuring . his latest , critical care , fits firmly within his repertoire for this decade . spader is convincing as the latter , but his perfect hair , fashion model looks , flawless attire , and his relaxed demeanor makes it hard to believe that this is a guy who works 38 hours straight through . the dialog , although there are quite a few nice one-liners , generally falls flat . never quite entertaining , rarely enlightening , and only sporadically funny , the movie seems destined for a limited market . " where have you been all your life ? " " it's called revenue ! " the show has a similarly clever ending , but none of this makes up for the tedium of most of the picture . rather than seeing critical care , go and rent one of lumet's great films . it is rated r for language , adult themes , and sexual situations . the film would be fine for teenagers . 
kiss or kill starts with a shocking immolation scene . this australian criminals-on-the-run picture is directed by bill bennett , whose last movie , two if by sea , made my worst films list for 1996 . kiss or kill is infinitely better than his last picture , but still not quite worth recommending . two actors from the delightful but inconsequential love and other catastrophes play the leads in kiss or kill . if you're a fan of experimental editing techniques , you'll love what editor henry dangar does in kiss or kill . using more jump cuts that i've seen in while , scenes jump back and forth from wide angle to close-up and forward and backward in time all while maintaining vocal continuity . when the story begins to flag , the editing does keep your attention just as too much caffeine keeps you jittery . their every other phrase seems to be a hearty , " thank you matey . " the film is set mainly in the australian outback , which the police describe succinctly as , " it's not the end of the world , but you can see it from here . " although the two leads are good , their characters are rarely compelling . both actors would be worth looking for in future movies . kiss or kill is not a bad film , but it is too often more an exercise in style than an interesting narrative . it is rated r for sex , nudity , profanity , attempted rape , and gore . the film would be acceptable for teenagers only if they are older and very mature . 
what has happened to these people since , and what is the relevance of this photograph ? although this outline is standard issue , the circumstances surrounding it are not . the book " fatherland " is a taut thriller and author robert harris's first novel . i read this engrossing tale on vacation a few years back and thought at the time that a wonderful motion picture could be made from it . although the script by ron hutchinson and stanley weiser borrows liberally from the novel , usually reliable director christopher menaul ( " prime suspect 1 " and feast of july ) manages to excise much of the suspense . most of the key events from the novel are there , but in the 1994 film fatherland they are laid before the viewer devoid of much of the energy and emotion present in the novel . hitler has essentially won the war with a stalemated peace even if the us never signed a treaty , and the war on the eastern front with russia drags on ad infinitum . rutger hauer , who specializes of late in over-the-top performances , is remarkably subtle this time as major xavier march . rory jennings plays dili as an automaton who shows little emotion at times when any human being would have had to be significantly affected . in delicious bit of casting against type , jean marsh shows up briefly as a creepy old german actress who blames her lack of success in america on those jews who run the studios . the book spent more time on the detective work whereas the movie devotes too much time to establishing hauer's " good " nazi credentials . and while the book kept the reader on the edge of the chair , the movie's laconic pacing and unhurried staging robs the story of its threatening immediacy . the movie makes everything too predictable , but the book had the gift of making the obvious surprising . a gripping and lucid book is thus transformed into a confusing and slow movie that is populated with a remarkably tame group of nazis with little visible anger . even the gestapo , with the exception of their sinister hats , don't seem to be a particularly bad lot . still , the fascinating underlying plot and hauer's moving performance ultimately save the picture , but just barely . it is rated pg-13 for brief nudity , some violence and a few pictures of concentration camp victims . the film would be fine for kids age 12 and up . 
we see the perpetually runny nose part , but the other part is only hinted at . margaret's fiery-red , wind-blown hair resembles a tumbleweed more than a coiffure . margaret's museum is a slice of life story featuring carter in one of her rare roles in a non-costume drama . margaret can barely keep her clothes on properly in the movie . carter , who has given a host of stunning performances in her career with the most recent being the sign of the dove , never adequately connects with her character . she gives margaret obvious idiosyncrasies but little depth . leigh and carter should have traded places with each doing the other film . neither gives a bad performance , but both try hard to do something the other does so naturally and beautifully . " what'll you do ? " " there isn't anything else . " ) the movie consists of little vignettes punctuated by hauntingly beautiful irish music plus the sound of neil's bagpipes , which margaret ridicules as sounding like a screeching cat . overall , the movie is in dire need of a more compelling and substantive story . neither teenager is believable . the story has a quirky ending which is really no more than a plot device to give the film its name . this eccentric movie would have worked much better as a short . with the padding removed , its paucity of ideas would not have seemed so limiting . as it is , it is a sweet , little picture with the emphasis on little -- a nice but uninvolving story of forlorn miners that you've heard many times before . it is rated r for profanity , brief nudity and sex . it is a mild r and would be fine teenagers . this movie was released theatrically in 1995 but never got a wide release in the united states . 
" yeah , yeah you're right , " she replies , not completely convinced . it's another christmas trip for the large mccallister family , and yes , they've managed to lose kevin again this year -- not that kevin minds . holed up in his fancy digs , he orders everything , and i do mean everything , off of the room service menu while he wiles away his time watching television . " are you kidding , " kevin shot back . " i'm 10-years-old . welcome to 1992's home alone 2 : lost in new york , the sequel to 1990's wildly popular home alone starring macaulay culkin as the cherubic-looking but devilishly resourceful kevin . the movie has two distinct parts . the limo is fully stocked , right down to the hot cheese pizza . culkin gives a surprisingly subtle and self-assured performance . the second half of the movie is devoted to the battle between the kid and the criminals , played again by joe pesci as harry and daniel stern as marv , and is all too predictable and slapstick . although not nearly as enjoyable as the sweet first part , it does deliver on some nice childish humor . in the story's big showdown kevin booby traps his uncle's vacant apartment and proves again that he is much smarter than these two dumb crooks . award winning actress brenda frica appears in a touching role as the pigeon lady in central park . " what kind of idiots do you have working here ? " this picture is one of the better idiotic kids' movies , which , admittedly , is not exactly a rousing recommendation . it is rated pg for cartoonish violence . the film would be fine for kids around 6 and up . 
when the stars of a movie series are dropped from the latest installment , one has to wonder whether the concept can survive . could alien : resurrection have been successful if science and creative script writing could not have brought sigourney weaver back from the dead ? could you imagine a die hard series without america's favorite everyman , macho hero , bruce willis ? and could anyone but harrison ford play indiana jones or jack ryan ? there is only one other common element . home alone 3 is tailor-made for younger audiences that find comic mayhem so funny . with cute alex d . linz , who was so sweet last christmas in one fine day , playing the lead , alex pruitt , it is easy for the kids to identify with the show's hero . ( one minor quibble . i am not sure of the actor's age , but he does seem younger which probably adds to the breadth of the demographics of the kids for whom the show will appeal . ) although not at all like the real mccoy , it is still an impressive piece of real estate . adorable alex has a smile that dazzles the audience with its innocence but with just the right touch of hidden devilishness . as funny as some of the scenes are , their repetition will probably begin to drive most adults a bit crazy . for their intended audience , they are just what is needed to keep the youngsters in stitches . plus , there's also a smart-aleck and quite loquacious parrot and an adorable white rat . " little boys do have good imaginations , don't they ? " true , but the film itself needed more imagination and less repetition if it wanted to involve the adults in the audience . it is rated pg cartoonish violence and a few mild expletives . the movie would be fine for all ages . my son jeffrey , age 8 , said he gave the movie a , and " if you think you've seen everything , you ain't seen nothing yet . " his other friend noveed , also 9 , said it was a good story , but that he didn't like the movie too much because the parts with all the booby traps grossed him out . 
but why are the entertainers all so sad ? with the film , spielberg boldly comes out foursquare against slavery -- not a very controversial or original idea . although spielberg devises many powerful scenes for the movie , his staging confuses more often than it enlightens . told by a host of known actors , almost all white , the overly long movie never takes the time to develop more than the one slave -- joseph cinque ( djimon hounsou ) -- into a real character . in rosewood , a much better film from earlier this year , we heard from a wide variety of african-americans , which made their plight real and vivid . how effective would shindler's list have been if only the nazis and the allies got parts , but the jews were relegated to a single character ? several groups sue for ownership of the slaves , but the script never takes the time to explore the issues as effectively as it should . instead , we get a cliff's notes-style outline of the case plus a few random scenes of the trials . when spielberg should be storytelling , too often we get theatrics instead . rather than anyone trying to repress the outbursts of the prisoner , everyone stares in awe at him as the music contains something approaching the sounds of the mormon tabernacle choir raising a loud voice to heaven . freeman gets little dialog and is basically wasted in the movie . but then , most of the characters in the film exist mainly in caricature . the best performance in the picture , and the only one with any depth , is given by anthony hopkins as the semi-senile , ex-president john quincy adams . even given the film's ponderous pacing , the slaves' story does come out . spielberg should have listened . all in all , amistad is an excellent story , poorly told . it is rated r for gore , nudity and mature themes , and would be fine for teenagers who can handle gruesome images . 
woody surrounds himself with a cornucopia of friends ( kirstie alley , richard benjamin , eric bogosian , billy crystal , judy davis , mariel hemingway , amy irving , julie kavner , julia louis-dreyfus , demi moore , elisabeth shue , stanley tucci and robin williams among others ) , creating too much of a distraction as these excellent actors parade through the movie . the jumbled result is a frequently humorous show -- although there are not as many big laughs as in most allen films -- that disappoints as often as it surprises . still , a mediocre woody allen comedy is better than the best films of some directors . in one of the more interesting twists , most of the roles in the picture are played by two characters . there are the movie's main characters and the ones from harry's book and short stories , who in turn are modeled on the main characters . deconstructing harry is filled with vignettes of comedic anger , and , like most of allen's works , it pokes fun at his fellow jews . after several dozen movies , most of allen's characters seem to be repeats from his previous movies . the two fresh ones this time are newcomer hazelle goodman's black hooker role and robin williams's fuzzy part . woody looks older and more tired than ever in deconstructing harry , but he can still turn a phrase and create an unforgettable image . although his recreation of hell with billy crystal as the devil shows no spark of creativity , his rendering of a bar mitzvah with a star wars theme does . the lightweight story eventually runs out of gas and stops , but it provides little to take away other than some fleeting humor . just a year ago , woody's everyone says i love you proved that woody still possesses his genius . let's hope for better things next time from woody than deconstructing harry . the film is rated r for profanity , sex , brief nudity and some dope smoking . it would be fine for older teenagers . 
in one of the key scenes in the latest bond movie , bond's new gadget-laden and remote-controllable bmw engages in a car chase and demolition derby . " unsafe driving can void your warranty , " chirps the car with ironic sincerity . the beauty of the james bond films comes from their lack of pretensions . campy fun from beginning to end , they provide energetic and forgettable entertainment for the masses . the picture's title , tomorrow never dies , makes about as much sense as the movie , which isn't required to make any . bond films , starring pierce brosnan these days , are for showing off whiz-bang technology and for action sequences . they never take themselves seriously , and the dialog , this time by bruce feirstein , always has some nice one-liners to tickle your funny bone . as elliot " there's no news like bad news " carver , jonathan pryce throws himself into the role of media baron and villain . ( and that's not his only malevolent tendency . this delicious but out-of-place piece of dialog has little to do with the news business , but it sure did raise the roof in our silicon valley audience . ) the original bond movies were considered sexually daring . with strategically placed bed sheets , with wet tee shirts that are not quite see through , and with camera cutaways just before anything revealing is shown , they stay firmly in the pg-13 rating territory . ( gosh , i hope i didn't give away the ending for you . ) " the key to a great story is not what but why , " carter lectures . and the why of any bond picture is to show how our hero can battle a hundred men and survive . with a bravado motorcycle chase and with non-stop action , director roger spottiswoode delivers . the package isn't much , but it is entertaining . tomorrow never dies runs a little too long at 2 : 03 . it is rated pg-13 for violence , mild profanity , and sexual situations , and would be fine for kids around eleven and up . 
usually my reviews are written before films are released , but what with the busy crush of openings for the christmas season , it was not possible for me to get to all of the press screenings . i missed the jackie brown screening because i always give preference to kid's films . even though mr . magoo , which screened at the same time as jackie brown , proved to be the worst film of the year , i don't regret the decision to take my son and his friends . so it was that i went to jackie brown late , knowing that some of the major film critics loved the picture . as i sat watching the overly long movie slowly unfold , i began to wonder what was the fascination that others had found and that i didn't . although it was by a director , quentin tarantino , who has made exactly two good films ( pulp fiction and reservoir dogs ) , and although it had more stars in it than i could count , jackie brown is a surprisingly mediocre movie . with different names on the marquee , i posit that the reviews would not have been so glowing even if the performances were the same . all of this notwithstanding , jackie brown isn't a bad film or an uninteresting one ; it's just a disappointing movie . the performances are okay although i do not see any that are of oscar caliber as many are proposing , and its story of a scam usually keeps your attention . the best part of the movie , written by tarantino and based on the elmore leonard novel , " rum punch " , is its nice , albeit too infrequent , collection of one-liners . the movie's best line has not a racist or profane word in it . the title role is played by pam grier , who started in a slew of low-budget , black , action pictures in the 1970s . the scam has a few twists , but it's nothing special . " i'm your manager . i'm managing to get your money out . " after an intriguing ending told serially from three different perspectives , tarantino tacks on a lethargic , feel-good epilogue worthy of a television movie . on the way home , my wife and i discussed long scenes and whole characters we would have eliminated to advance the story better and faster . jackie brown is just good enough to make you wish it were much better . it would be okay for teenagers only if they are both older and mature . 
disney's recent movie called flubber -- an underrated film that critics , except me , generally loathed but kids loved -- is a remake of the absent-minded professor starring fred macmurray as professor ned brainard . after seeing and liking robin williams in flubber , our family decided to check out the original . the original's simple humor looks remarkably tired compared with the story's energetic and much more inventive remake . moreover , the performances in the original , except those of fred macmurray and keenan wynn , as the villain alonzo hawk , are wooden . the professor's intended , nancy olson , for example , is played lethargically by betsy carlisle in the original . and although macmurray did a fine job , williams brought much more to the role . then again , weebo , the professor's companion in the remake outclasses poor charlie and garners an order of magnitude more laughs . the question confronting the professor , and the script writers , is " what can you do with flubber ? " in both film versions , the substance is used in a basketball game and as an alternative fuel for the professor's car . john hughes did the script for flubber , based on the original script by bill walsh and the book by samuel w . taylor . in the remake they simply find many more imaginative and comical things to do with flubber , not the least of which is a magical , synchronized dance number . even the parts that are the same in the two versions are so much more realistic , funny , and involving in flubber . even the simplest things are done particularly poorly in the original . the sounds effects during the big basketball game sound less like a real crowd than a swarm of droning bees . the talky comedy has less humor than it should and relatively few sight gags , amazing given the possibilities of flying rubber . the visuals of the flying tin lizzie are sweet , and the ending , where they finally put the bad guy in his place , does have the imagination that the rest of the picture too often lacks . although it is a genuinely charming comedy , the absent-minded professor is that rare original movie that made me yearn for its remake . it is not rated , but would be a g and is suitable for all ages . my son jeffrey , age 8 , thoughts it was a " really good movie . " he gave it * * * , and said he thought it was tied with flubber . he went on to comment that he liked the way that neither version was bloody . 
there is a moment in oscar & lucinda in which oscar hopkins lets the direction of his life be decided by the flip of a coin . looking boyish and unstable , fiennes again proves the wide range of his acting talent . like werner herzog's powerful film fitzcarraldo about an opera house in the jungle , the crux of the story deals with moving the materials for a large building in a hostile and primitive setting . potentially the most interesting part of the movie , the outback excursion gets little screen time . most of the movie is devoted to oscar and his worries about his gambling . i had major problems with screenwriter laura jones's last pictures , a thousand acres and the portrait of a lady , and this one was only marginally better . adapted from a novel by peter carey , the movie has trouble creating compelling characters . they are certainly interesting to watch , as are the inviting images by little women's cinematographer geoffrey simpson , but they have no depth . some of the language is poetic but rarely is it involving . quirkiness can carry a picture just so far , and at two and a quarter hours , the movie begins to wear out its welcome long before the ending credits roll . the rich and constant narration by geoffrey rush suggests a larger meaning than the story has . similarly , the movie tries to mesmerize us with its whimsy but doesn't seem to believe in its own material . the show does have its delights , but too often we simply don't care . with tighter editing and better character development , the movie and its enjoyment potential could have been enhanced immensely . oscar & lucinda runs 2 : 14 . it is rated r for violence , sex , and brief nudity and would be fine for teenagers . 
too bad their celluloid debut could not have been in a better movie , but since they worked on the idea for the story , they have themselves partly to blame . the movie's lackluster beginning may convince you , as it did the guy behind me , that the movie might be a good time to catch up on your sleep . hang in there , though , because the girls' undeniable charm will begin to work its magic on you as it did me . the show has two distinct parts -- singing and non-singing . kim fuller's script for the latter feels as though it were thrown together . sometimes the jokes work , but too often they are hopelessly lame . the highly energetic vocal numbers , of which there should have been more , pulsate with energy . the relatively confusing story concerns rival groups that are making and proposing to make movies about the spice girls . the movies include a straightforward documentary and a variety of other pictures such as spice force 5 -- think of the action figure possibilities . the film's humor works best at its most self-deprecating . another sequence pokes fun at the group's popularity . roger moore , among other stars , take on small roles in the picture . richard e . grant plays the group's merciless manager . " you have a schedule . " with grenville horner's multicolored set designs and editor andrea macarthur's colorful spiral-swirl scene transitions , the images are inviting even when the story isn't . " did anyone care if marilyn monroe could act ? " you can judge for yourself . what is clear is that they can certainly have a good time . the silly show's high-spirited frivolity does eventually win you over mainly due to the inherent charm of its stars . stick around afterwards as the girls will be talking directly to you during the cute closing credits . it is rated pg for light profanity and a little sexual innuendo . the show would be fine for kids around seven and up although they may need to be older to be interested . 
what have we come to as a culture that we can look with nostalgia at the events of a mere decade ago ? to most people nostalgia means events that happened several decades ago . even films about the 70s like the ice storm and boogie nights seem to be covering a time that happened too recently to parody with bad clothes and ridiculous sets . the wedding singer attempts a nostalgic look at the classic period of the mid-1980s , 1985 to be precise . although most people will have trouble remembering how 1985 was different from today , the wedding singer clears it up . in the previous decade we wore incredibly bad clothes with heavy reliance on clashing colors of lavender , pink , and lime green . our tastes in household decorations looked like an updated version of the ticky-tacky 50s . how soon we forget how awful we were . the wedding singer frustrates and delights with equal measures . one minute it is an over-the-top comedy that is gratingly bad , and the next it is a surprising sweet and touching little romance . director frank coraci exerts little control over his picture , which drifts aimlessly from bad to good and then back again . with long hair and a completely different look and approach , happy gilmore's star , adam sandler , plays robby . his uneven performance can be blamed partly on the script by tim herlihy , who also penned happy gilmore , but it is mostly sandler's own fault . the main reason , other than the energetic music , for the success of the movie is the lovely performance by the female lead , drew barrymore . julia is engaged and her romance , like robby's , is equally ill-fated . in the predictable , but none the less charming , romance developing between them , robby and julia don't realize that they are in love until almost the end . it isn't until julia practices her wedding ceremony kiss with robby -- she's not sure the degree of tongue that is appropriate in a church setting -- that they realize that they have the hots for each other . when robby isn't doing something stupid like the embarrassingly bad scene in which he ruins someone else's wedding party just because he is depressed , the chemistry between julia and robby is genuine and captivating . drew barrymore has innocence down pat . the supporting cast has lots of promise , partially realized . if -- and that's a big if -- you can ignore the stupefyingly bad comedy , you will find that the movie has a big heart underneath . rewritten this could be a wonderful movie . even as it is , it still has a lot to recommend it . it is rated pg-13 for sex-related material and language and would be fine for kids around ten and up . 
but there will be much more at stake . the bond films keep changing the actors who play blofeld . ( the bond film's usual dramatic opening credits are much more prosaic this time with various shots of twirling and glistening diamonds plus a few mundane dancers -- a big disappointment for those of us fond of its normal high energy and visually attractive beginnings . ) but his heart does not seem in it anymore , and his acting quality in the bond movies decreases dramatically after thunderball . lana wood plays the small part of plenty o'toole -- love those bond film names so full of sexual innuendo . plenty is another of bond's love interests in the movie . easily the most bizarre and out-of-place characters are putter smith as mr . kidd and bruce glover as his sidekick mr . wint . looking and acting like a couple of pseudo-country bumpkins , they seem to have wandered by accident from the adjoining sound stage into the filming of this movie . as a howard hughes type recluse named willard whyte , jimmy dean gives an unusual performance that would have been better cast if the role had been given to a crotchety , older actor . cia agent felix leiter , this time acted by norman burton , does not wear the standard issue , dark spook glasses from previous bond flicks . they never make any sense , but i miss them anyway since they were so deliciously hokey . another gadget changes your voice to sound exactly like someone else's . the movie does have its frivolity , especially in the chase scenes . it is rated pg for a half dozen mild profanities , cartoonish violence and sexual innuendo and would be fine for kids around nine and up . my son jeffrey , almost 9 , complained about the picture's cuss words . he liked the movie but said his favorite of the first 7 bond films is still thunderball . he hated the two stupid characters in this one , mr . kidd and mr . wint . 
( this makes impersonating him unusually easy -- one fake breast , and voila ) . the gun itself is a beautiful piece of weaponry that can be assembled on the spot from its slick , smoothly rounded pieces . moore , clearly comfortable with his part this time , executes with precision albeit not with connery's flair and charisma . still , moore is believable this time as bond , something george lazenby never was . the film , especially in its nighttime sequences , handsomely photographed by ted moore and oswald morris , continues the bond tradition of taking us to beautiful and exotic foreign locals . ah , the bond women . the bond films progressively push the limits of almost displaying nudity without ever showing it clearly . but the bond films prize their family-friendly ratings so technically we don't exactly see her . as bond says to scaramanga , " we all get our jollies one way or another . " bond films titillate , but only within carefully controlled bounds . britt ekland plays mary goodnight , bond's lovely , brave , but sometimes not too bright fellow agent . in the case of ekland , there are other reasons why a bikini uniform is a particularly desirable clothing choice . i could do without bond's image as he smokes foot long cigars . and maybe there are those who still think so today an ugly american , he spews racial epithets at the local chinese that will have you wanting to cover your ears in shame . the nicest thing he is says is that they could get to work faster if they'd get out of those silly pajamas . one hopes that this character will not appear again . in contrast to the poorly choreographed fight sequences in many of the earlier bond films , this one has a perfectly executed and quite funny one set at the villain's martial arts school . the film's obligatory car chase cum demolition derby is a carbon copy of a hundred other pictures . only the great bond theme music makes it anything special . the previous film , live and let die , for example , had the same chase , better executed . two of the story's shoot-outs occur in a funhouse-style shooting gallery that looks like they were lifted straight out of an episode of the television series , " the avengers . " but given that they borrowed the idea , it's good to see that they stole from the best . this time it's the other side that has the best gadget -- a wing with a jet engine that can be attached to a car to turn it into an airplane . nothing less than a monopoly on solar energy , which we are told will upset the world's oil sheiks . most of the story however is a simple series of chase scenes . we learn almost nothing about the grand strategy until the last twenty minutes of the picture so that it feels almost tacked on . the result is an entertaining film but not a very substantial one . it is rated pg for sexual innuendo and violence and would be fine for kids around nine and up . my son jeffrey , almost 9 , said it was an okay movie and better than the previous one with roger moore . 
the net result is that they spend more time bickering about it than doing it . as waiter and would-be actor joe , matthew modine gives a witty and wise performance . they will both will be tempted by others -- he by a madonna body double and she by a women's self-defense instructor , played by a remarkably low-key denis leary . as just one example , she finds the little mermaid and all of the disney cartoons quite spiritual . the movie is filled with known actors in small performances that are more than cameos but less than major parts . steve buscemi takes the role of a music video director . joe , who seems most interested in the harassment issue , keeps reading the lingerie and other ads and developing deep sounding but superficial theories about their demeaning women . if the story sounds disorganized , it is . written and directed by tom dicillo from box of moonlight , the movie meanders , not going anyplace in particular . some of the jokes work while others fall flat . this funny scene works so well because it is at once outlandish and realistic . when has someone not praised a movie that you hated , but you tried to be polite and kept your opinions to yourself or at least muted what you had to say ? but for every good scene like the one above , there are others with promise but no laughs . the joke is that she doesn't attack him at all , which probably sounded funny in the script but is staged with little style or impact . although the light-weight film doesn't have much compelling material , the cast gives it their all . the result is a periodically funny picture that does have its entertaining moments . it is rated r for nudity , sex and profanity and would be fine for most teenagers . 
filmed by oliver curtis with a warm autumnal palate in color shades reminiscent of an old home movie , the film feels as old as its protagonist while the sets remind us that the picture is set in the present . giles hasn't " been to the pictures in quite some time . " the local newspaper calls it a " puerile romp without a single redeeming feature . " ( i'm sorry to report that i've seen a lot of those lately . ) the awful dialog from these videos will elicit many a chuckle from the audience even if no big laughs . " hey man , don't grief out on me . " ) a romance with a comic veneer , the touching film meanders along like a slow running brook with small delights , albeit no big ones , all along the way . typical of the movie's dry humor is the message that giles puts on his first-ever answering machine . the caller is instructed to leave a brief message , but only if it is extremely urgent . the unstated implication being that , otherwise , as giles would say , the caller should just " bugger off . " it is rated pg-13 for brief strong language , thematic elements and some sexual references and would be fine for kids around 12 and up . 
in a spectacular action sequence , the shuttle blasts away , turning the 747 into a fireball . with complete lack of subtly , the nefarious mr . drax sends his henchman , chang , played without much energy by toshiro suga , to see that mr . bond's visit isn't a pleasant one . there's even a knife-wielding corpse who pops out of a gasket during a funeral procession through the venetian waterways . like any tourist james relaxes a bit . although his metal may make mincemeat of his victims , we do learn some of its downsides , clearing security's metal detectors at airports being one . why bond and dr . goodhead choose to engage a seven-foot giant like jaws in hand-to-hand combat rather than just plugging him is one of the story's many mysteries . but just as you're not supposed to question the logic of cartoons , neither should you waste too much time pondering the likelihood of bond's predicaments and their resolutions . the bad guy's plan this time is suitably dastardly . with shades of the ark , the space shuttles carry young couples who look like the cast of starship troopers . the space odyssey scenes , although fresh , slow down the pacing of a story already having trouble keeping up its momentum . and although the fight with a big rubber snake , i mean a man-crushing python , isn't much , the battle with the green-light laser weapons does have good visuals even if it looks lifted straight out of star wars . besides , any movie where the lead wears a coat and a tie in a centrifuge is clearly one that doesn't need to be taken too seriously . just kick back and enjoy it . moonraker runs a little long at 2 : 06 . it is rated pg for comic violence and sexual innuendo and would be fine for kids around 9 and up . my son jeffrey , almost 9 , said he thought it was a good movie , and he ended up liking jaws , whom he hated in the last episode . 
to the sounds of a rinky-tink piano playing music like you might find in a turn of the century saloon , our heroes blow the safe one dark night , waking the locals . as the newton boys fire in the townspeople's direction , no harm is meant . just a bunch of lovable robbers . the movie goes down as easy as a shot of whiskey , or sarsaparilla for you teetotalers . director richard linklater of before sunrise fame even includes several slow sections so you can catch up on your sleep before its rousing and quite surprising ending . this cinematic version of easy listening music doesn't have many flaws , or many strengths , but it certainly does entertain . the opening credits introduce the players in silent movie fashion , even using a square aspect ratio and sepia photography to set the mood . peter james films the picture itself without any particular flair . and the script by claude stanush , clark walker and richard linklater , based on stanush's book isn't particularly imaginative either . " we're going to get the big banks because that's where the money's at , " the lead brother , willis , tells us in a typically prosaic bit of dialog and an awkward paraphrase of the classic willie sutton line . the picture's salvation is the story itself , which is fascinating . the actors , who give perfectly acceptable performances , have a blast doing this period piece . they have such a great time that the audience may become envious . and speaking of periods , the sets by catherine hardwicke are another of the movie's delights . if you've grown tired of seeing mcconaughey playing cocky lawyers , you'll be happy to know that this time he gets a completely different part , a cocky robber . mcconaughey also steals the picture , getting most of the screen time . if you want to see more than a trivial amount of the other excellent actors , ethan hawke from before sunrise being a one of my favorites , you'll have to catch a different film . the boys are so sweet that you'll find yourself rooting for them in every job they pull . ironically , it is when they finally get caught that the movie is at its best . and , whatever you do , don't miss all of the ending credits with johnny carson . the newton boys runs too long at 2 : 02 . it is rated pg-13 for some violence , profanity , and nudity and would be fine for teenagers . 
" i'm still a pig , and you're still a human vacuum cleaner . " yes , it's been two decades , but the original odd couple , walter matthau as oscar and jack lemmon as felix , are back again in the odd couple ii . seen last , and better , in last year's out to sea , these two old troopers and real-life buddies clearly enjoy every minute of their time together . their joy in their work is so infectious that the picture , with its recycled jokes , becomes more enjoyable than it has any right to be . matthau gets the verbal humor , and lemmon the physical . the lines are so lame that they would fall flat if delivered by most comedians , and even matthau has trouble with such limp material . as felix , lemmon can be annoying with his repetitive , bad throat joke that is about as much fun as fingernails scraping on a blackboard . when the two are together in what feels like ad libbing , the movie really starts to click . the movie's best visual has them hitching a ride with a rich elderly gentleman in an antique car that goes so slow that joggers and even fast walkers easily pass them by . the scene's end could be considered in poor taste , but it does work in the context of the story . " there's more to life than a job , a dinner alone and a tv show , " felix says , explaining to oscar why he enjoyed their adventure despite all their disasters . and the audience shares vicariously in their silly little episodes . it is rated pg-13 for brief strong language and would be fine for kids around ten and up . 
thus we set the stage for octopussy - you gotta love those bond names -- 1983's episode of the james bond saga , and roger moore's penultimate appearance as the famous secret agent . louis jourdan , as kamal khan , is one of the most debonair and suave of all of bond's villains , who traditionally are crude ones like spectre's #1 or goldfinger . khan has the looks and demeanor that come closest to rivaling bond's own . the smooth talking khan , wearing clothes that look like retro mao , never breaks a sweat . and in a scene designed solely to shock , we find that the superrich view sheep's eyes as a special delicacy . in order to make the ever-gray east germany interesting , the picture is visually enlivened by setting it in a circus , bursting with characters in colorful costumes . this along with director john glen's deliberately slower pacing gives the strangely serene film the feel more of a romance than an action thriller . octopussy's purpose is more to provide a romantic element than to provide an another villain . the endings of bond pictures are traditionally full of theatrics . the overblown conclusion of octopussy includes a sequence of james ridding high above the battle on a hot air balloon made of bright british flag material . octopussy runs too long at 2 : 05 . it is rated pg for comic violence and sexual innuendo and would be fine for kids around 9 and up . my son jeffrey , almost 9 , thought it was an okay movie but complained that there weren't any real bad guys in it and that he didn't understand what all of that egg thing was about . overall he felt the show just didn't make enough sense for him . 
although one cannot be sure what angels look like , nicolas cage , dressed from head to toe in somber shades of black , makes a most impressive one . and unlike john travolta's jocular version , cage's has all the seriousness of an undertaker . with a tremendous sense of the visual but without much storytelling ability , director brad silberling attempts a remake of wim wenders's german film wings of desire . although wenders's film is only ten years , it is already being referred to as a classic . why silberling , whose only other film was the mediocre casper , thought this was the right time and he was the right person to redo so recent a movie remains unclear . with his long black coat and constant five-o'clock shadow , cage , using small variations on his basic melancholic expression , rethinks the whole concept of the angelic . they can be seen by mortals only if they want to be , which they rarely do . the picture is at its most magical during the eventual first touch and first kiss sequences . think way back to the excitement and rapture of the first time that you ever held a lover's hand and of your first romantic kiss . rising above even these experiences , the scenes exist on a higher plane that may make goose pimples crawl up and down your arms . the film works best when it reduces the story to a tableau . the tall , darkly dressed angles , dotting the beach for their morning music by gabriel yared , provide the impact that the script by dana stevens rarely delivers . ( wim wenders is also listed on the writing credits since he did the screenplay for the original movie . ) the audience at our screening was squirming in their seats since the movie seemed as though it was going on for an eternity . as good as some of the visuals are , they are highly repetitive and done excruciatingly slowly . " some things are true whether you believe in them or not , " he explains with his usual gravity . the chemistry between them lacks the emotional punch that the story requires . nathan has a secret that drives the second half of the film . franz steals most of his scenes with an energy sadly lacking in the rest of the movie . the monotonic and glacially paced story eventually comes to its completely predictable and highly manipulative ending . the city of angels could easily be remade as a short film with music but no words . now that's a remake worth seeing . it is rated pg-13 for sexuality and brief male nudity and would be fine for kids around ten and up . 
some actresses are known for their gorgeous looks , others for their intelligence , some for their homeliness , and still others for their toughness . the trait that jennifer aniston , last seen in the delightful but underappreciated picture perfect , conjures up on the big screen is her inherent likeableness . in the object of my affection , aniston's character , nina borowski , seems to have it all , or close to it . as the publisher , alan alda gives a boisterous , comedic performance as a consummate namedropper ( mailer , spielberg , stone , hussein , ? ) . the beauty of the story is that it takes so many unexpected detours and side-trips . the dialog , however , too often ends up sounding flat and stagy . and " i'm simple , that's why i teach first grade . " ) after the film's midway point , when it makes a switch from romantic comedy to romantic tragedy , the poignant lines are more sharply drawn . " have you noticed that you're the only practicing heterosexual at your thanksgiving dinner ? " director nicholas hytner , whose last film was the poorly received the crucible , paces the show too languidly and dulls most of the emotional punches with the result being a film bordering too often on blandness when its strength is its risk taking . the ending is crispy written and staged with great power . but then they turn around and give us a feel good hollywood epilogue that ties up the loose ends all too neatly and , in some cases , quite unconvincingly . don't say i didn't warn you if you end up suffering a sugar high from those last few moments . the object of my affection runs 1 : 51 . it is rated r for profanity , some sexuality and brief drug usage and would be fine for teenagers . 
kopple had a real challenge in constructing an interesting film since woody turns out to be as dull as his movies are exciting . it reminded me of a two-person junior high school skit i was in , in which i was supposed to be playing " a member of the elite society , " whatever that meant . the most striking conclusion from viewing the movie is how incredibly unhappy woody is even with millions of fans and dollars . even when playing the new orleans style jazz that he reportedly loves , he looks miserable . grimacing with his eyes closed , he produces music that can be described as , well , pleasant , but he makes it look less like a labor of love than something to be endured . woody , although he clearly mugs for the camera at times , seems fairly natural . one even has its own large , indoor swimming pool with elaborate tiled mosaic floors that looks like it was last seen in an episode of " i , claudius . " with enormous doses of woody's music , the film spends little time analyzing what attracts woody to it . " there's nothing there between you and the pure feeling of playing , " woody says , giving us some hint of his motivation . " there's no cerebral part to it . " in one of the film's little insights , woody talks about why europeans like his movies better than americans . europeans even love his films , such as interiors , that bombed in the us . " the europeans like pictures that drone on , and i'm good at making pictures that drone on , " he explains . what may surprise woody's fans is that he is rarely funny in person and sometimes surprisingly inarticulate . ( " i'm appropriately animate for a human being in the context in which i exist , " is his retort to soon-yi's criticism of his lack of gestures on stage . ) actually , the film serves as proof that he doesn't enjoy anything . " you are so happy to be so intelligent , " one party guest , whose native tongue isn't english , tells woody . it is rated pg for a single use of the f-word and would be fine for kids around twelve and up . 
okay moviegoers , dust off your old balance scales as you try to decide whether deep impact is worth recommending . ( deep impact is the first of this year's big-rock-hits-earth movies . on the plus side of the scales you will probably want to include the marvelous acting by such veterans as morgan freeman and robert duvall as well as younger star tea leoni from flirting with disaster . also on the plus side are some remarkable special effects in the third act - the first has some cheap looking ones straight out of an old buck rogers movie . finally , the outline of the story , as opposed to the details of the script , is fascinating , so you'll want to put it on the positive side . on the negative side , mimi leder's direction and michael tolkin and bruce joel rubin's script is so confusing and so riddled with holes that you'll spend the hour after the movie discussing all of its problems with your date and friends . the large array of needless subplots and unnecessary characters goes on this side . the biggest weight on the negative side of the scale is the long second act in which the movie loses all momentum and tries to turn from a big budget action adventure to a maudlin soap opera . of course , you may want to balance the scales differently . the second act is an excruciatingly long and slow weeper full of lugubrious mini-dramas about people lamenting the end of civilization as we know it . so we have a sleep-inducing action picture - now there's an oxymoron - that is bracketed with some great scenes . " i know you're just a reporter , but you used to be a person , right ? " with some great scenes reminiscent of broadcast news we go into the inner workings of a television newsroom . elimination of both of their characters would be a huge improvement . if their characters belong in a movie , it's not this one . and he's honest . if you can only see one earth in peril movie this year , this is not the one to choose . there's no guarantee that bruce's will be any better , but hope springs eternal in the land of popcorn and candy . deep impact runs 1 : 55 . it is rated pg-13 for intense disaster- related elements and a little profanity . the picture has the potential for scaring the living daylights out of impressionable kids , but in general it should be fine for kids around 10 and up . 
director stephen gyllenhaal , who co-authored the script with nickolas kazan , says in the press kit that he did not envision the story as " a head movie or a toker's paradise . " magoo . although the story has promise and some good acting , the first two acts serve mainly to mark time until the picture comes alive with some much needed twists and turns in the last act . in addition to billy bob's acting talents , the picture has other little delights . " sometimes complications are interesting . " with its underdeveloped script , a few more complications would have helped homegrown enormously . but any movie with billy bob does have its rewards . it is rated r for profanity , sex , violence , nudity and , what else , lots of dope smoking . it would be fine only for quite mature and older teenagers . 
as directed by waiting to exhale's director , forest whitaker , the latest attempt by sandra bullock to find another movie to display her talents is at best a partial success . the imminently forgettable hope floats is a gossamer movie that is filled with pleasant but insubstantial little romantic dramas . equally quirky is birdee's nephew travis , played by cameron finley , seen last year as the beaver in leave it to beaver . " look at me , " she points out . " my life has no meaning or direction , and i'm happy . " in one of movie's many funny scenes , birdee relates how justin shocked her with a kiss when she was a girl . too often whitaker's staging amounts to a series of lost opportunities . the show's lone tragedy of any real import is handled with touching delicacy , but it may be hard to take for those who may have recently lost a loved one . even if there is little genuine chemistry between the leads , it is refreshing to see an old fashioned picture in which two lovers , who " sleep " with each other , seem to do exactly that and nothing more . ah , nostalgia . whitaker should be ashamed of the child exploitation scenes that he uses to bracket the story . an even more sickening scene with the girl occurs toward the end of the picture . even if the movie is shallow and uneven , it has its charms , not that you'll remember any of them by the next day . and if bullock isn't as good as she was in while you were sleeping , at least she is infinitely better than in her insipid performance in in love and war . perhaps bullock needs just the right role in order to shine . hope floats makes her appealing but rarely compelling . hopefully bullock will strike cinematic pay dirt in her next outing . she's such a likable person that we're rooting for her . it is rated pg-13 for thematic elements and would be fine for kids around 10 and up . 
extremely well cast and acted throughout , the movie stars tatjana trieb as the 8-year-old lara and sylvie testud as lara at age 18 . " my reading is improving but isn't perfect yet , " is how lara translates into sign language her teacher's much more dismal report on her lack of progress , but her parents never seem to catch on to her chicanery . scenes like these hold much promise , but the timidity of the director cuts most of them short before they are ever allowed to develop their full potential . the disorganized second act has many magical scenes which , once again , the director seems reluctant to allow to come to fruition . the movie's one genuine tragedy is so obviously announced and reannouced that you get tired waiting for it to happen . this scene literally bursts with exuberance . this pleasant enough film possesses a promising plot and good acting but remains adverse to risk taking . the director leaves out any tension and smoothes out the rough edges so that the resulting picture only sporadically rises above the ordinary . beyond silence runs 1 : 49 . the film is not rated but might be pg-13 for a brief scene of sexuality and would be fine for kids ten and up . 
how thick do you like your intrigue ? how much ambiguity can you stand ? when you think of conspiratorial government agencies , do you reject the easy targets like the cia and focus instead on more sinister ones like fema ? and finally , how successful are you at suspending disbelief for two solid hours ? welcome to the x files - the movie version . since reviews of this movie demand that the critic state his or her relative familiarity with the television series upon which the movie is based , let me confess up-front that i have seen only one episode . in the museum of radio and television in new york - a must-see attraction - i watched an early episode as a research project before seeing the movie . the television show was more cerebral and less dependent on gore and special effects than the film , but they were both confusingly complex by design . it eventually goes off so that director rob bowman can make the film into a big budget action picture as required for a summer release . and why was the skyscraper completely demolished ? why these bodies were not disposed of in a thousand easier ways is one of many illogical questions that a normal viewer , as opposed to a die-hard fan , might want to ask . " i have a hunch that whatever you find can't be categorized or easily referenced , " mulder says more than once to his sidekick , scully . actually , the entire story fits under those rubrics . although the plot may be impenetrable for non-fans , the movie from beginning to end is absolutely fascinating even if not very often interesting . the labyrinthine plot got so outlandish at times that our audience started laughing at it . ( " you told me you had the answers , " complains an angry mulder . " i don't have them all , " replies dr . kurtzweil . periodically , spooky creatures turn up to spice things up , and the movie becomes aliens-lite . among the many joys of the film is that we are able to deduce that hertz must have a rent-a-tractor outlet in antarctica . you can check one out without a reservation and go joy riding alone across the vast frozen landscape . and when you get tired of driving , you can try your hand at spelunking . at the end of the credits , we learn that the story was all fiction . or so they want us to believe . it is rated pg-13 for violence and gore and would be fine for kids 11 and up . 
never has the value of school uniforms been better demonstrated than in madeline . it is almost impossible to envision these sweet-looking little darlings being involved in drugs or any of today's modern problems . director daisy von scherler mayer , whose last movie was the atrocious woo , captures perfectly the wholesome madeline series of children's picture books by ludwig bemelmans . while rarely rising to the captivating level , the movie stays firmly in the cute range . little of consequence happens , but the story provides some nice little adventures . in the lead role of madeline , cinematic newcomer hatty jones is precious . as the worrywart nun , miss clavel , fargo's frances mcdormand seems made for the role . a subplot , and probably the reason the show got a pg rather than a g rating , concerns a kidnapping plan by pepito's teacher . it is handled so delicately that the picture is effectively a g nevertheless . filmed in dark , serious tones by pierre aim , best known for the morose film hate , the movie is set mainly to overcast parisian skies . only the happy colors of the girls' clothes , designed by michael clancy , keep the movie from having an inappropriately somber look . madeline's ingenuity saves the day more than once , and actress hatty jones saves the movie with her likeable spunk . it is rated pg and would be fine for all ages . 
as zorro wins the match , elena grabs a hat to cover herself just fast enough so that the film can keep its pg-13 rating . if the audience has by then grown tired of this overly long and confusing production , this sensuous sword fight will easily rejuvenate their interest in the movie . the mask of zorro by goldeneye's director martin campbell features lavish sets and golden cinematography in addition to swashbuckling action and an uncountable number of explosions . the script by john eskow and godzilla's terry rossio and ted elliott is the film's low point . so confusing that you may never get straight who is fighting whom and why , the movie is sorely in need of a narrator . they open the movie with a huge block of text which helps some if the audience can remember it all . the good news is that swordmaster bob anderson choreographed the sword fights beautifully . you'll recognize anderson's techniques and style . it is best to enjoy the fight sequences and ignore the bewildering explanations of who is on what side and why . stick to the basic rule that zorro and the peasants are good and that anyone with money is bad , and you'll be able to follow enough of the storyline to get you by . banderas with true comedic flair uses great bravado and lots of luck but less than the requisite skill in his first attempts at challenging dozens of men . most of the story is a rehash of numerous others . if you love swashbucklers or if you're a banderas fan , you'll probably want to put the movie in your must-see category . the mask of zorro runs way too long at 2 : 16 . it is rated pg-13 for some intense action and violence and would be fine for kids around 9 or 10 and up . my son jeffrey , age 9 , said the movie was " really good " and gave it * * * . he liked all of the swordplay , but was frightened by such scenes as the realistic pickled head and hand in a jar . 
as the old adage goes , be careful what you wish for lest you get it and , by implication , loathe it . starring macaulay culkin in his first big role , the movie was a hit for its slapstick humor as well as the age-old theme of a kid who bests the grown-ups . ( the problem with your kids' watching movie series is that it is not always easy to start them with the first episode . it was a simple matter of a bad headcount on the airport shuttle and , what with the commotion of leaving , etc . , they didn't notice kevin's absence . culkin displays a wide range of acting emotions . he is especially cute hamming it up in front of the mirror . looking brave , wise , and yet vulnerable , culkin is perfect for the role . imaginative , kevin turns on all the lights , cranks up the stereo , and moves cardboard cutouts on his electric train to make his house look chockfull of adults . using relentlessly upbeat christmas music by star wars's john williams , the movie contrasts the joyous holiday season with the less than ideal situation in which kevin and his parents find themselves . although the two robbers are central to the storyline , the movie is at its best when they are nowhere to be seen . they cause the sweet , original movie to dissolve into cheap slapstick that you've seen many times before . a little of stern and pesci goes a long way , and home alone has them in almost every scene in the last half of the movie . too bad kevin's adversaries had to be so terminally stupid - the rest of the picture isn't . it is rated pg for comic violence and would be fine for most kids . my son jeffrey , age 9 , gave the movie * * * . 
jane austen's mafia , sometimes marketed more simply as mafia ! , is a with many of the sets made to look identical to the movie series it spoofs , the film has jokes that work best for those familiar with the godfather movies , but the humor is so broadly written that people who have forgotten the coppola films will still get it . in his last film role before his death , bridges looks tired and miscast . to be fair , the gags he is given , like getting stuck in the venetian blinds , are not much to work with . the script uses a series of sight gags that work at first , but the movie , heavy on the flatulence jokes , soon runs out of its own gas . and michael mcmanus , use one ridiculous gag after another to send the audience reeling . as the story gets longer , the jokes get staler and the writers fall back on gross-out humor like the world's biggest vomiting scene . most of the movie , however , is silly fun . when one joke , like spaghetti on a stick , doesn't work , the writers toss the audience a barrage of other gags in the hopes that something will strike the viewers' fancy . ( the filmmakers even had fun with the press by sending out two press kits . the first one had a cover in english , but the text was in italian . some of the best jokes are funny partly because they are so crude that you are embarrassed to be laughing . sounds ridiculous and is , but the director stages it with so much outlandish panache that the scene generated guffaws from the whole theater . and still others , as the guy who threw craps at the dice table by throwing a pair of , well , you guessed it , left our audience just staring . most of the dialog is not up to the physical humor but there are some funny lines . a high energy take off of the dance routine from flashdance . " but my legs were too long . " even if you hate the movie , stay through all of the crazy credits , where you get " fun facts " and a horoscope interspersed with the more traditional credits . it is rated pg-13 for crude jokes and comic violence and would be fine for kids around 11 and up . 
clay birdwell is certainly unlucky in love . and those are only a few of the dead bodies that show up in director david dobkin's little film noir called clay pigeons . bringing little to the role , joaquin's deadpan acting style is used by the director as the background canvas upon which to sketch the story . the happy-go-lucky lester oozes so much charm that women almost drool over him . " i'm like a big fireworks show , " he declares with his usual big smile and slightly nervous , hearty laughter . " i'm very bright . " luckily for him and the audience , janeane garofalo shows up about midway through the picture and immediately enlivens it . although there is not a lot to recommend the film , there isn't anything much to criticize either . it is an enjoyable enough little movie , and garofalo is always fun to watch . it is rated r for violence , sex , nudity and profanity and would be fine for older teenagers . 
check your brains at the door . it's time for some silly summer fun in armageddon as bruce willis and co . kick some asteroid tail . when a big rock last headed for our planet in deep impact , it was soap opera time . it's summer now when even flying boulders the size of texas can be seen only as a lark . it's just a matter of time . " actually this one is just a baby , his big mama is on the way . think starship troopers , but more ridiculous . in armageddon's defense , it at least realizes it is a parody , something that many recent films haven't been smart enough to figure out . ( the movie will win many viewers' hearts early on with the scene of a small dog attacking a street display of godzilla toys . given that many are bigger than him , it is a nice metaphor that size doesn't matter . ) armageddon delights in being politically incorrect . " i understand that you are handicapped by natural immaturity , but i forgive you , " she tells him . although there are many contenders for the movie's most ridiculous part , a . j . 's lovemaking scene with grace has to be the winner . the one universal demand is that they never want to pay taxes ever again . the special effects are anything but , and the scene is dark and murky . if you can only see one asteroid movie this year , deep impact , with all of its faults , is probably the better choice . but if you're looking for laughs and have plenty of time to kill , armageddon is just about as good . it is rated pg-13 for sci-fi disaster action , sensuality and brief profanity and would be fine for kids around 10 and up . 
jane austen's mafia , sometimes marketed more simply as mafia ! , is a comedic retelling of the godfather saga . with many of the sets made to look identical to the movie series it spoofs , the film has jokes that work best for those familiar with the godfather movies , but the humor is so broadly written that people who have forgotten the coppola films will still get it . in his last film role before his death , bridges looks tired and miscast . to be fair , the gags he is given , like getting stuck in the venetian blinds , are not much to work with . the script uses a series of sight gags that work at first , but the movie , heavy on the flatulence jokes , soon runs out of its own gas . during the first thirty minutes , the writers , jim abrahams , greg norberg and michael mcmanus , use one ridiculous gag after another to send the audience reeling . as the story gets longer , the jokes get staler and the writers fall back on gross-out humor like the world's biggest vomiting scene . most of the movie , however , is silly fun . when one joke , like spaghetti on a stick , doesn't work , the writers toss the audience a barrage of other gags in the hopes that something will strike the viewers' fancy . ( the filmmakers even had fun with the press by sending out two press kits . the first one had a cover in english , but the text was in italian . some of the best jokes are funny partly because they are so crude that you are embarrassed to be laughing . sounds ridiculous and is , but the director stages it with so much outlandish panache that the scene generated guffaws from the whole theater . and still others , as the guy who threw craps at the dice table by throwing a pair of , well , you guessed it , left our audience just staring . most of the dialog is not up to the physical humor but there are some funny lines . " but my legs were too long . " even if you hate the movie , stay through all of the crazy credits , where you get " fun facts " and a horoscope interspersed with the more traditional credits . it is rated pg-13 for crude jokes and comic violence and would be fine for kids around 11 and up . 
as the old adage goes , be careful what you wish for lest you get it and , by implication , loathe it . starring macaulay culkin in his first big role , the movie was a hit for its slapstick humor as well as the age-old theme of a kid who bests the grown-ups . ( the problem with your kids' watching movie series is that it is not always easy to start them with the first episode . it was a simple matter of a bad headcount on the airport shuttle and , what with the commotion of leaving , etc . , they didn't notice kevin's absence . culkin displays a wide range of acting emotions . he is especially cute hamming it up in front of the mirror . looking brave , wise , and yet vulnerable , culkin is perfect for the role . imaginative , kevin turns on all the lights , cranks up the stereo , and moves cardboard cutouts on his electric train to make his house look chockfull of adults . using relentlessly upbeat christmas music by star wars's john williams , the movie contrasts the joyous holiday season with the less than ideal situation in which kevin and his parents find themselves . although the two robbers are central to the storyline , the movie is at its best when they are nowhere to be seen . they cause the sweet , original movie to dissolve into cheap slapstick that you've seen many times before . a little of stern and pesci goes a long way , and home alone has them in almost every scene in the last half of the movie . too bad kevin's adversaries had to be so terminally stupid - the rest of the picture isn't . it is rated pg for comic violence and would be fine for most kids . my son jeffrey , age 9 , gave the movie * * * . 
blade is the picture for those of you who have avoided jackie chan movies because you think he's a wimp . this over-the-top action is , of course , either totally cool or completely ridiculous depending on your point of view . arguably the most fascinating part of the movie is the carefully constructed vampire world that writer david s . goyer lays out for us . in blade the vampire social structure is in the process of being upset by a group of rebellious youngsters of a less than pure strain . snipes , who has a wide acting range from action heroes ( murder at 1600 ) to lovers ( one night stand ) , rarely gets offered the best material . regardless of the quality of script , he manages to put so much energy into it that it is usually worth watching . some actors possess great natural talent , but with snipes it is more his intensity and commitment that make the difference . blade's director , stephen norrington , clearly wants to make a fast-paced , no-holds barred bloodfest , and he succeeds . if vampire pictures are your cup of tea , this is one of the better ones . ( personally , i don't think i'll ever see a better one than habit , which i reviewed earlier this year . ) the problem with norrington's approach is that it soon becomes highly repetitive . a half-hour would probably suffice for most viewers , and some will be so grossed out by french kissing vampires with blood drenched mouths that they will leave before the film is over anyway . even if the guns are sleek and powerful , blade's noisy , old black dodge charger provides as much visceral thrill as its aging mufflers growl . the movie leaves you with a reason not to throw out that old cancer-inducing sunlamp you have in the back of the closet . blade runs 2 : 00 . it is rated r for strong violence and vampire related gore and would be fine for most teenagers . 
sas , the winner of a medal for bravery at the front , is not your typical conscientious objector . the lower classes developed completely different problems . even diseases it seems are class conscious . their small love story has a natural , unforced quality that the rest of the film lacks . although the stories in the film are moving , director gillies mackinnon ( a simple twist of fate ) is never able to weave them into a compelling whole . the battlefield scenes shown in flashback are singularly unrealistic looking . the movie's visuals can be stunning . set in a bleak but sharply lit scottish winter , glen macpherson's cinematography will have your bones shaking as you admire the beauty of the countryside . a few times regeneration says something enough out of the ordinary to make you think . typical of these is billy's reflection that a battle charge is just like sex , " exciting and ridiculous . " too bad more of the movie wasn't as provocative . it is rated r for war violence and would be fine teenagers . 
that's probably okay since the men who answer the ad aren't what they claim to be either . director and editor brad anderson makes the ad the centerpiece of his breezy , little romantic comedy . heavy on the melancholy , the tale has a pervasive score full of dreamy , sad rhythms . davis gives such a reserved performance that the audience doesn't know much more about erin when the story ends than when it began . erin's most visible trait is her reluctance to smile , and the film's biggest mystery is who will make her smile and when . like davis , gelfant doesn't reveal much with his acting . with the fish out of the way , the bad guys hope the aquarium will become so unpopular it will not want to expand . this whole subplot borders on the ridiculous and isn't particularly funny . in easily the best part of the film , erin chooses to call back the 60+ men who responded to the ad . like a sequence from a woody allen movie , we see a whole series of " suitors " telling erin lies calculated to win her heart or at least get her into bed . most guys try trite come-on lines with " you're the most beguiling woman i've ever met " being typical . most men are so full of themselves that they sound like they might burst at any moment . " i see . i want . i take . " this extended comedy sketch of her interviews and trial dates works marvelously well , but it is not enough to sustain an entire movie . the rest of the picture marks time until the sappy ending , which the story telegraphs in advance . uta briesewitz's handheld camera work is dizzying and confusing . coupled with anderson's fast paced and erratic editing , the movie becomes disorienting . jokes like the answering machine that keeps repeating " you have no messages " lose their punch in the frenzy of the hyperactive editing . with several good laughs and an undeniable charm , the picture can be quite entertaining . with fewer attempts at cuteness with the camera and the editing and with the elimination of some of the subplots , the movie could have really blossomed . as delivered , however , it has a hilarious comedy sketch in the middle but little more . it is rated r for profanity and sexual situations and would be fine for teenagers . 
completely nude , their bodies intertwine into one in a sexual ballet that director jesse peretz cuts much too short . oozing sex from every pore , she is perfectly cast the film's female lead . sissel is joey's " first , " but sissel seems quite experienced . when joey just turns over the lovemaking to sissel , the picture comes alive with a raw sexual energy that most films are afraid of . ( the sex isn't that explicit , but it is intensely natural . ) ( the locale raises the temperature nicely , providing the steamy atmosphere which filmmakers prefer for filming sex scenes . ) another subplot deals with sissel's many quirks , not the least of which is her obsession with boiling her vinyl records . ( the film is set in the mid-70s , but little is made of the fact and at least one car from the 90s is prominently featured in one of the scenes . ) other parts , such as the rat in the walls , have metaphorical meanings that most viewers will not attempt to figure out . their intimacy and the beauty of their lovemaking saves the picture , even if just barely . it is rated r for sex and nudity , and would be fine for older teenagers . 
they are out of focus too , but this is attributed to the camera equipment rather than the operator . the picture that launches him on his career is one of a woman's pubic hair shot so close-up that some can't even figure out what it depicts . his latest , pecker , has his usual montage of quirky characters , but the script is more like an outline that he never quite got around to filling in . some of the characters and situations are humorous , but the story has trouble ever gelling . the supporting cast is strong , with the exception of a formless performance by brendan sexton iii as a thief who is pecker's best buddy . the big chill's mary kay place does a wonderful job as pecker's overly generous mom . the biggest problem with the casting of the film is the weakness of the lead , edward furlong as pecker . furlong gives a vapid performance and never gives us a reason to care about pecker . an enigma , furlong is just the blank face on the other side of the camera lens . some of waters's jokes probably sounded funnier in the script that they came out in the celluloid . although john waters's pecker never really comes together , it is entertaining . it is rated r for nudity , profanity , sex and a brief drug usage scene and would be fine for most teenagers . 
they are out of focus too , but this is attributed to the camera equipment rather than the operator . the picture that launches him on his career is one of a woman's pubic hair shot so close-up that some can't even figure out what it depicts . his latest , pecker , has his usual montage of quirky characters , but the script is more like an outline that he never quite got around to filling in . some of the characters and situations are humorous , but the story has trouble ever gelling . the supporting cast is strong , with the exception of a formless performance by brendan sexton iii as a thief who is pecker's best buddy . the big chill's mary kay place does a wonderful job as pecker's overly generous mom . the biggest problem with the casting of the film is the weakness of the lead , edward furlong as pecker . furlong gives a vapid performance and never gives us a reason to care about pecker . an enigma , furlong is just the blank face on the other side of the camera lens . some of waters's jokes probably sounded funnier in the script that they came out in the celluloid . although john waters's pecker never really comes together , it is entertaining . it is rated r for nudity , profanity , sex and a brief drug usage scene and would be fine for most teenagers . 
or will it be great riches instead ? waking ned devine suffers from an excess of good concept and casting and a deficit in plot development . scenes of naked octogenarian males on motorcycles are certainly different , which is not the same thing as interesting . a good-spirited film , it features lovely pictures of the irish coastline and countryside . although there is nothing wrong with the picture , it is rarely compelling . without much of an ending , the film basically just stops . we are left with some nice characterizations but a series of missed opportunities in the script development . a pleasant enough movie , it could and should have been more successful . it is not rated but probably would be an r for brief scenes of full-frontal male nudity and would be fine for teenagers . 
painfully shy but with an amazing ability to mimic the songs and voices of classic entertainers , including judy garland , marilyn monroe and billie holliday , lv appears at first to be a mute . as lv , jane horrocks , in a stunning performance , is so completely unlike the anorexic she played in life is sweet that most viewers will have trouble believing it is the same actress . the mother is as crude and unlikable as lv is delicate and winsome . the long , energetic scene of her bravado performance is the movie at its best . great period songs are belted out by horrocks herself -- no lip syncing in this movie . the story contains many needless extra characters and subplots . one involves a telephone installer who has a wayward homing pigeon , and another concerns a standup comic who isn't funny . although horrocks's characterization is phenomenal , the rest of the story is not as strong or as fresh . the film's ending is a manipulative tearjerker that it is an unbelievable plot device better suited for some other movie . little voice has many magical sequences , but it never quite lives up to the promise of its premise . stripped away of the uninteresting supporting characters and refocused on lv , the film would be infinitely better . and rather than one big singing number , give her two or three . horrocks deserves them . it is rated r for mature themes , brief nudity and profanity and would be fine for teenagers . 
if you've always been curious about exactly what heaven and hell look like , what dreams may come offers some intriguing suggestions . in director vincent ward's long cinematic sermon on the advantages of a moral life , the movie depicts heaven as a happy , colorful landscape painting and hell as an eerie , gray , holocaust graveyard overflowing with talking heads . the rarely subtle film shows two dead children from inside their coffins during the opening credits . both are deeply scarred characters who share their troubles with us in almost every scene . if the movie were involving , it could have been the downer of the year . instead , it stays at the level of visual technical achievements with the figures in it about as real as those in art gallery paintings -- lovely to look at , but nothing to get concerned over . gooding , like the rest of the fine actors , is largely wasted in a movie that works only at an ethereal level . the magical film is artistically surreal but only sporadically realistic . the script by ronald bass , based on richard matheson's novel , could have used a little more levity and should have given the characters some credible depth . " i'm in dog heaven . " this delightfully natural humor is regretfully absent in most of the movie . the story's pop messages include such trite ones as , " good people end up in hell because they can't forgive themselves . " ( okay now , let's all forgive ourselves so we will get to pass through the pearly gates successfully . whew , that's a collective load off our shoulders . ) the film shows us a heaven that is a blend of the nineteenth-century landscape paintings of turner and cole mixed with impressionistic touches . not only is it gorgeous , the paint isn't even dry yet . these dazzling images are among the loveliest and most innovative hollywood has created in years . with michael kamen's dramatic music and yvonne blake's sumptuous costumes for the afterlife , the film works best when viewed as grand opera as illustrator maxfield parrish might have staged it . moral rules , it seems , are filled with fine print . a movie filled with absolutely stunning imagery , it is strangely cold and unengaging despite all its beauty . still , the pedantic script's tedium is more than offset by the handsomeness of the production . what dreams may come is a feast for the eyes even if not a particularly filling meal for the mind . it is rated pg-13 for thematic elements involving death , some disturbing images , profanity including the f-word and brief nudity . the film would be fine for teenagers . 
as directed by ted demme and written by mike armstrong , monument ave . concentrates on the texture and the hopelessness of the community that the people feel stuck in . using jump cuts and fast-talking dialog , the movie imparts an immediacy that allows the movie to transcend the lack substantial narrative drive . one of the film's major pitfalls is that the director allows the actors to get sloppy , causing much of the dialog to be lost to low mumbling . and the actors' irish accents wax and wane like the moon . sometimes they are thick and convincing , and other times they mysteriously vanish . a remarkably controlled denis leary plays the lead character bobby o'grady in an ensemble cast . the few times that bobby loses control of the situation are all the more impressive because the usually explosive leary keeps his emotions in check throughout most of the picture . the movie works best in its small moments , which the director gets just right . one scene has the guys arguing over the relative merits of the movies of their generation . elmo's fire is more controversial . like members trapped in a religious cult , charlestown's inhabitants have no idea that leaving is even an option . the tragedy of their situation isn't what happens , but what doesn't or , at least in their view , what can't . monument ave . it is not rated but would be an r for violence , profanity , and pervasive hard drug usage and would be acceptable for teenagers only if they are older and mature . 
" you might make it out of here , and you might not . " challenging the newest prisoner to " do the math , " he paints a picture that is not encouraging . ray joshua , a " performance poet " in his first acting role , plays saul williams the charismatic protagonist of slam . slam was a major award winner at this year's sundance and cannes film festivals . ray is a gentle soul whose passion is his poetry , which he does rapid fire , rap style but without music . a fascinating woman known as the " slam granny , " who was at our press screening , explained the basic ideas and the rules to me . the movie would have been much better if the slams were more prevalent in it . ) although director marc levin gets the poetry part right , probably because his background is in documentaries , the rest of the movie is pretty thin . the men , with their rippling muscles bordering on explosion , don't know what to make of someone like ray . the movie wisely provides no easy answers for ray . it is rated r for profanity , sex , violence , and drugs and would be fine for older teenagers . 
director griffin dunne's practical magic , which isn't as whimsical as the material warrants , starts during the time of the salem witch trials as an owens woman is being hung . the film , which has a long series of missed opportunities , starts slowly and has trouble building any sustainable momentum . when dunne brings in a few significant doses of the supernatural in the last part , the movie finally begins to find its legs . the parts of the aunts are the least well developed in the generally unpolished script by robin swicord , based on alice hoffman's novel . his likable character provides a good-hearted spark that enlivens the film's second half . a romantic angle with him and one of the sisters is less satisfying . as in the rest of the movie , the director sets up the romance but keeps pulling it back , never quite letting it ignite as it should . the story works best when it unabashedly follows its offbeat roots . the spoon in sally's cup keeps on stirring , for example , whether her hand is on the spoon or not . more of these cute little touches would have helped , as would more of the film's black comedy aspects . as delivered , the film moves in fits and spurts , never quite taking off , yet providing some bits of solid entertainment along the way . the movie does suggest some fascinating possibilities for the parent calling chain at school . but the pta would most certainly not approve . it is rated pg-13 for mild profanity , violence and sensuality and would be fine for kids around 10 and up . 
the old " alfred hitchcock presents " television series was masterful at creating little , macabre stories packaged into self-contained 30-minute doses . it knew just how to take a simple story of seemingly ordinary people , who looked like our next-door neighbors , and make us wait for the ending punch . with a few diabolical flourishes , the show's conclusion would reveal the characters' hidden evil . trimmed of its fat , apt pupil would have made an intriguing episode . after director bryan singer's first mesmerizing and popular film , the usual suspect , his second has been widely anticipated . in some ways an odd choice , the story has a paucity of material to work with . on the other hand , a stephen king novel about the holocaust certainly has lots of potential for shock value . for some reason singer downplays the shock while asking his audience to wait an hour and a half before he lets the movie finally take off . for those with suitable patience the payoff is there , and the wait is made tolerable by a fascinating performance by ian mckellen . although there are a couple of cheap exploitation scenes of the killing of animals and a few spooky daydream scenes of concentration inmates , the movie is remarkable for its moderation . the script manages to make the holocaust seem almost trite . the entire movie could be rewritten without that aspect and be remarkably unchanged . the film , while eventually entertaining , takes little risks , following a formula you've seen many times before . it is worth seeing for ian mckellen's work , but , if you are waiting for director bryan singer to demonstrate his brilliance again , you'll have to hope his third picture is a charm . apt pupil runs 1 : 51 . it is rated r for strong violence , sex , drug usage and profanity and would be fine for older teenagers . 
it's a fun place to be , what with the contests and all . ( this is the second time in two days that i've screened motion pictures with a holocaust theme . yesterday's screening had stephen king using it as the subject for a horror picture in apt pupil . and today's life is beautiful takes a humorous view of the same topic . personally , i much prefer the serious treatment it got in the long way home that i saw a couple of weeks ago . ) regardless of how it sounds , roberto benigni , one of italy's favorite funnymen , treats the biggest tragedy of this century with respect . the film , thank goodness , moves away from its slapstick first hour to a poignant second that is its salvation . the sets are sumptuous , the gowns are elegant and the cinematography stunning . the jokes , however , are such old-fashioned slapstick that they are almost never funny . eggs accidentally breaking on unsuspecting heads and dresses inadvertently ripped by clumsy feet are such old sight gags that it is hard for them to even generate smiles , much less laughs . the good-spirited film tries hard , perhaps too hard , to charm its audience . it works so hard at being cute that it forgets to be funny . even in the camp , guido still hams it up to keep up his son's spirits . the movie's relentlessly happy music will put you in such a pleasant mood that the scenes of the " shower " changing rooms may seem almost harmless . and the nazis appear a lot nicer than they usually do . fans of the roberto benigni brand of physical humor will undoubtedly love life is beautiful . others may want more . the film is in italian with english subtitles . it is rated pg-13 for holocaust-related thematic elements and would be fine for kids around 12 and up . 
given the financial success of the original , it was probably inevitable that disney would try to mine the vein one more time for some cinematic gold . although a highly polished production , the sequel pales in significance to its predecessor . this time the story is a romeo and juliet retread . the story probably sounds more impressive than it is . whereas the original had such a mesmerizing story , the sequel succeeds in spite of rather than because of the story . just as he was unable to carry godzilla a few months ago , here he just does not have a powerful enough presence to be credible as the king of the jungle . there are only a few reasons to rent or buy the sequel : the images , the music , and the humor , and each of these is seriously compromised . most the images were probably handsome before they were transferred to videotape , but on vhs they are sorely lacking . the dazzling , radiant colors from film stock lose so much in the transfer . there are a few dull scenes , such as the big , ending lion battle that would be mediocre in any medium . to be fair , in comparison with most direct-to-video releases , this one far outshines most of the others . the music has most of the energy of the original , but the songs aren't quite in the memorable category . let's just call them , well , tuneful . the humor from the original makes a few , much appreciated , guest appearances . still , any movie that relies on flatulence for its biggest laugh has its limitations . disney throws in a few pc lines that reek of tokenism . kiara doesn't like being called by her title . " i'm not just a princess , you know , " she tells timon and pumbaa . " that's just half of who i am . " judged against other direct-to-video releases , this one stands out as a much more expensive and polished production . the result is a pleasant experience but not an involving or memorable one , sort of disney-lite . the lion king ii : simba's pride runs just 1 : 15 . it is rated g and would be fine for the entire family . unlike the original , which might scare some impressionable younger viewers , this one has fewer frightening sequences , although the lions do growl and fight some . my son jeffrey , age 9 , really liked the movie , but he liked the original better because it was more serious , whereas the sequel relied more on humor . he liked the fighting scenes the best . both of them gave it * * * * . 
the famous shakespearean actor , kenneth branagh , plays the woody allen part in woody's latest film , celebrity . branagh has carefully trained himself to sound exactly like woody , right down to woody's fast-paced , rambling cadence . it's an eerie performance that makes one yearn for the real mccoy . still , branagh makes a commendable attempt in a miscast part . the story about a group of vain , amoral celebrities is a breezy comedy that provides several nice laughs even if it never amounts to much of anything . basically , the characters play a two-hour game of musical beds . the movie could have used some of those opera supertitles giving the current pairings , as it is frequently hard to keep straight who is currently sleeping with whom . filmed in a handsome black and white by sven nykvist and overlaid with one of woody's typical jazz scores full of bittersweet melodies , the relaxed picture doesn't have the pretensions of many allen films and is even fairly angst-free . the film contains such a cornucopia of acting talent that it begins to get in the way of the storyline . trimmed of many of the minor characters and cameos , the story could have had more punch . and wouldn't a half-dozen characters being really funny trump 3 dozen performing hit-and-run comedy ? ( i think we've heard that one before . ) lee , who is one of the movie's most fidelity-challenged characters , enjoys every minute of it . " so do i ! " her husband pops up , almost slobbering . " but i exercise to it , " the wife tells her husband with a look of disgust . the screening is complete with fresh flowers and champagne in the lobby . ( real press screenings are not quite like that , although we do sometimes get free soda . ) the screening is of a black-and-white , arty movie by a " pretentious " director . the resulting banana scene contains some delicious physical comedy . leonardo dicaprio plays a horribly unsympathetic character . a never cuter winona ryder plays lee's last conquest . the film has very abrupt ending . it is almost as if woody said , " whoops we've gone on too long . cut . it's a wrap . " it's too bad that before he wrapped it , he didn't give it more focus and trim it some . still , even if it is just a piece of fluff , it is entertaining . it is rated r for sex , profanity , and drug usage and would be acceptable for older and mature teenagers . 
the woman in question is queen elizabeth i , and the movie , elizabeth , covers the time just before and after the 25-year-old woman is crowned queen . indian director shekhar kapur's vision of elizabeth is as a modern heroine , lover , and ruler . michael hirst's script advances that view by giving her dialog as fresh and bland as a modern novel . typical of the insipid lines , are elizabeth's statements , " i do not like wars . with the lovely and intelligent cate blanchett , from oscar and lucinda , cast as the lead , the movie bursts with potential . the largely wasted supporting cast includes shine's geoffrey rush , jude's christopher eccleston , stealing beauty's joseph fiennes , jurassic park's richard attenborough , colonel chabert's fanny ardant , shadowlands's edward hardwicke , and even sir john gielgud in a cameo as the pope . even with all of this promise , the film cries out for a one-word review : confusing . with lavish sets by john myhre , luxurious costumes by alexandra byrne , radiant cinematography by remi adefarasin and stirring music by david hirschfelder , the film is a treat for the eyes and the ears , except for the dialog . with the center speakers turned off , the movie would make a top-rated silent picture . the writer and director get the visuals perfect but have great difficulty in creating a coherent story . even those , like myself , who consider themselves students of english history will have trouble following the movie's details . filmed on the dark side , many of the characters , who look similar , dart in and out of scenes without ever establishing motivations for their actions . elizabeth's part is well developed , but the supporting cast all have underwritten roles . although the overall setup for the story is clear , i posit that if they were to have a pop quiz at end of the movie , most audiences would have trouble identifying the characters and explaining their roles . elizabeth is a lithe , stunning and levelheaded beauty . the rest of the movie has a swarm of supporting characters in a convoluted series of conspiratorial subplots . the machinations are as thick as they are confusing . to develop them into a comprehensible story , the filmmakers should either have added an extra hour to the film's length or eliminated some of them . do we really need a royal cross-dressing bisexual scene ? if writer hirst and director kapur are successful with this modern adaptation of the story of queen elizabeth i , the future possibilities are limitless and potentially appalling . hirst could give him some snappy dialog like , " hey brutus , what you doin' here ? " please , no . it is rated r for violence , sex and nudity and would be fine for most teenagers . 
every building , it would seem , holds some literary or historical story , and speed knows them all . a fatalistic philosopher , speed has opinions on every subject and many are pretty bizarre . " i think of every double-decker loop as another loop toward my death , " he tells us in one of his more lucid moments . in his environment as a guide to the city , the other star of the movie , speed is elegant and poetic . to be fair , if success means pleasing your customers , speed appears to be a failure . the many shots of his bus audience show them so near boredom that they look like moving zombies . " one of the great tragedies of this experiment of the thing we call civilization is that we have to work , " speed tells us . even if his riders don't appreciate him , he loves every minute he gets on his little stage . the short movie feels longer that it's hour and a quarter length , probably because it has one natural ending scene after another before it finally stops . although the movie is worth seeing , the actual guided tour looks a lot more interesting . the movie is not rated but would probably be pg-13 for mature themes and would be fine for kids around 12 and up . 
" what could you possibly do ? " a lot , actually since babe is not exactly your average porker . the second in the babe series is a complete departure from the original . the dark-toned film will probably frighten many of the younger members of the audience , so it should certainly have been rated pg rather than g . with everything from vicious dogs to a frightening scene at a gun club , the movie has more scary images than a g-rated picture would lead parents to suspect . even if one considers the show only as an adult film , the confusing script has trouble sustaining its comedic momentum and just drifts along with a series of hits and misses . with the exception of the chimpanzees , the animals are all cute . his part this time , sadly , is relegated to cameos at the beginning and ending of story . his warmth is much missed in the picture . after esme is strip-searched at the airport - why have that in a g-rated movie ? the movie is at its best when it falls back on the sweet aphorisms of the original . " you're brave , and fortune , more often than not in this uncertain world , favors the brave , " one of the dogs at the farm tells babe . it is easy to see where director george miller lavished the movie's big budget . beside the wide multitude of talking animals , which are done even more convincingly than the first time , the city he creates is astonishing . its dazzling landscape of skyscrapers and famous buildings will have you trying to see how many you can recognize . you almost want to ask the projectionist to hold the film for a few minutes so you can count them all . it is hard to criticize any movie that has 3 singing mice ( " that's amore " being a typical song of theirs ) that read the silly titles of each chapter . it makes the movie feel like an illustrated picture book that your kindergarten teacher is reading to you . still , for all of its delights , the movie is a mere shadow of its original . one suspects that , if the studio had had the good sense to give george miller the same budget as the original , they would have gotten a better movie and certainly better value for their investment . it is a dark and sometimes frightening movie that is inappropriately rated g . the movie would be fine for most kids around 8 and up . my son jeffrey , age 9 , gave the movie * * ? and a mixed review . he thought the story was confusing and the plot needed more development . he worried that it would scare a lot of kids . one of his favorite characters was the little tabby kitten , who kept whining sweetly , " but i'm still hungry ! " 
so what is worse ? trailers that tell you too much about an upcoming movie or ones that mislead you ? home fries is in the latter category . the trailers make you think it is a light-hearted , romantic comedy , but the movie features a family that settles it arguments with military , attack helicopters . even if the film isn't quite what it seemed to be , it is extremely cute , filled with lovable , oddball characters within a ridiculously crazy plot . a sweet-as-apple-pie drew barrymore plays the lead , sally . as dorian , luke wilson delivers a touching portrait of a troubled guy . " that's the kind of thing that messes kids up . " fast food , a prime part of americana that movies generally ignore , plays a central role in this comedy . and the funniest scenes in the movie happen at the burger matic . home fries isn't much of a movie , but it is a charming one thanks to some lovely performances . it is rated pg-13 for mature themes and some sexual humor and would be fine for kids around 11 and up . 
yes , it is time again to go back to one of science fiction's longest running soap operas , star trek . its fans will likely love this latest episode . lesser devotees , like this reviewer , will probably be entertained but slightly confused . although most of the movie is relatively straightforward , some sections play like a foreign language film without benefit of subtitles . the story this time concerns the ba'ku , a people who have " warp capability " but who have rejected technology . the intelligent but talky script mixes in some nice doses of humor . he then proceeds to demonstrate this ability , providing a nice little sight gag . too often director jonathan frakes , who plays the part of cmdr . william t . riker , has a sense of pacing that borders on the glacial . this is one of many soporific scenes that would have been better eliminated or at least trimmed significantly . although the story has a nice twist toward the end that almost everyone will appreciate , the movie seems designed to please star trek fans while not caring much about the casual viewers . taken as a whole the movie is fun even if it does contain several long , dull passages . star trek : insurrection runs 1 : 43 . it is rated pg for sci-fi violence and sexuality and would be fine for kids around 9 and up . my son jeffrey , age 9 , said that he could not compare this one to other star trek movies since this was his first one , but he really liked it and gave it * * * . his favorite parts were the action sequences , especially those using the phasers and the other guns . he said that the movie was frequently confusing about exactly who were the good guys and who were the bad and what each was up to . 
if you find those irritating car burglar alarms that go off for no reason whatsoever to be the equivalent of fingernails across a blackboard , the movie mighty joe young suggests the perfect solution . you need to ask your spouse for a 2 , 000-pound gorilla for christmas . being close ancestors to homo sapiens , big apes hate those loathsome alarms as much as we do , but they can do something dramatic about it . and if you're an overgrown ape like joe , the film's humongous star , all you need to do is stomp and sit on the screeching car a few times in order to turn it into raw recycling material . ron underwood , who has given us comedies as brilliant as city slickers and as dreadful as speechless , directs this remake of the 1949 movie mighty joe young . the sweet image of them nestled together , while hiding in the heavy brush , is one of many such tender moments in the picture . the childlike innocence of these game scenes and the one of jill is being cuddled while singing joe to sleep are the movie's best . the formulaic plot with cartoon-cutout villains is the story at its worst . little joe chews off a finger and a thumb from strasser's hand in the beginning of the movie . throughout the movie , the camera loves to stare at the hand with the missing digits . this is just one of the cheap tricks that the director falls back on when he can't think of anything else to do . the men in the audience will have no problem believing this . most would be happy to follow her commands . the chemistry between joe and jill is excellent , as is the love interest between gregg and jill . the gorilla is either growling , which may scare the daylights out of some kids , or playing , which will delight everyone . the story itself is so thin , involving the evil strasser's attempt to steal joe for his body parts , that it keeps dragging . the movie tries to have a surprising ending but can't quite bring itself to do it . in ends nicely enough but in the same formulaic spirit of the rest of picture . even so , you can't help but have a soft spot in your heart for a film with a lovable ape and two charming human leads . the three of them are better than the movie that they are in . it is rated pg for violence and would be fine for kids around 8 and up , although some younger kids may be able to handle it . my son jeffrey , age 9 , thought the movie was sort of " so-so , " and gave it * * . he complained that it should have been rated pg-13 since he found some of it scary . 
the lonely dora doesn't have much of a life either . the opening , brief letter-writing portion of the movie , which has a montage reminiscent of a woody allen film , is the movie at its best . not much happens , and what does goes very slowly . the film's schmaltzy and contrived ending comes out of nowhere . the putative tearjerker of a conclusion left me dry-eyed . it may not be much of a movie , but , for the bulk of it , the strong and heartfelt performances of the two leads do make up for the threadbare storyline . the film is in portuguese with english subtitles . it is not rated but might be pg-13 for brief violence and some profanity and would be fine for kids around 12 and up . 
most of the time , avid moviegoers search out the showing of the director's cuts of movies . writer and director terrence malick's the thin red line , based on the james jones novel , will have many wishing in vain for a vastly trimmed down and focused studio cut of the picture . at two and three quarter hours long , the movie meanders throughout but not nearly as bad as in the relatively pointless first and last acts . the movie might be a candidate for the record book in that it is perhaps the first movie that would be improved if viewers skipped the entire first and last half-hours , when little of consequence occurs . as the year's other movie about world war ii , the thin red line will naturally be compared to steven spielberg's masterpiece , saving private ryan . whereas spielberg's film is never less than breathtaking , malick's vision is much more ethereal and removed . people die horribly in both films , but malick's movie , with its montage of helmeted hollywood stars , knows how to create striking visuals but not compelling characters . deaths in the thin red line are likely to leave audiences dry-eyed and detached . nature , on the other hand , is so gorgeously presented that the film looks like a long episode from the nature channel . the camera looks long and lovingly at all of the flora and fauna . the biggest difference between the two movies is that saving private ryan has a plot . the thin red line contents itself with showing some of the fighting at the battle of guadalcanal and doesn't feel the need for any structure . the actors are hard to recognize under all the grime of war , but from the credits it is obvious that any man with hollywood connections tried to get himself a part . cameos by john travolta and george clooney bracket the movie at the beginning and end . most notable perhaps are sean penn as 1st sgt . penn's performance is as beautifully understated as nolte's excellent work is purposely over the top . in the supporting cast , john cusack does a nice turn as capt . john gaff . some of these are moving , but too often they end up sounding trite and false . even if it drags frequently , the movie does illustrate the horrors of war . the film asks the quintessential anti-war question of " why ? " but provides few hints at the answers . the thin red line runs needlessly long at 2 : 46 . it is rated r for wartime violence and gore and would be fine for teenagers . 
written and directed by the crying game's neil jordan , in dreams wants to be more than the typical psychological horror film , but it only partially succeeds . jordan is well versed in ways of divulging facts in bits and pieces so that he can maintain the suspense . however , the movie is rooted in the over-the-top horror movie genre , and this proves to be its downfall . as the movie grinds on , it becomes increasing familiar . annette bening does the best she can with a role that almost demands overacting . it is rated r for violence and profanity and would be fine for teenagers . 
james woods , perhaps hollywood's best relief pitcher , saves yet another otherwise mediocre movie in another day in paradise . with his mesmerizing blend of incendiary emotions and fascinating charisma , woods adds a dazzling spark of life to any project he undertakes . with large doses of realistic gore and with one heroin induced high after another , the film likes to push the cinematic envelope as far as possible while avoiding the dreaded nc-17 rating , which it probably deserves . wagner , who has the most underwritten role , does little visible acting . most of the movie has these two bonnie and clyde couples -- the veterans and the apprentices -- engaging in a variety of crimes . if heroin were legal , these might be confused with paid product placements . the predictable script by stephen chin and christopher b . landon , based on the book by eddie little , telegraphs most of its punches . if a job looks too easy , you can be sure it will go awry and in the obvious way . the enjoyment of the picture comes back to james woods's compelling acting . bad idea . bullets would have been superfluous . another day in paradise skirts various movie genres ( including crime drama , comedy , character study and drug abuse ) without ever developing any of them with enough depth to allow them to gel . what we are left with is another wonderful performance by james woods and little more . it is rated r for pervasive heroin and other drug abuse , strong violence , profanity , sex , and nudity and would be questionable for anyone less than college age . 
so what's on your ideal movie checklist ? let's take a look at director luis mandoki's message in a bottle and see how it stacks up . check . with kevin costner , robin wright penn and paul newman , you've got them in spades . gorgeous images ? thanks to caleb deschanel's dazzling cinematography of glistening ocean waters and warm interior sets , you can put a big checkmark there . believable romantic chemistry ? another check . costner and penn are wonderful together and just as awkward as lovers in real life would be . how does your personal ranking system handle intelligent stars stuck in a heavily clich ? d drama ? in this case the whole audience knows what several of the key turning points have to be , and they're right . and how many credits do you deduct when a completely ridiculous and implausible ending comes totally out of left field for the sole purpose of mass audience manipulation . do you feel violated as a viewer ? in a movie that is as inviting and charming as it is annoying and infuriating , how to evaluate it is a tough call . sometimes you're captivated , and other times you're exasperated . will the good outweigh the bad for you ? maybe one of those personality tests would help . if you are in the hopelessly romantic category , you'll probably like the film's soap opera predictability and emotional shenanigans . on the other hand , if you' re more analytic , well ? you get the idea . teresa is a beautifully shy sort who bursts into girlish giggles when she feels unsure of herself . until this clich ? d scene , they have a romance that's heavy on cuddling . for one , dodge claims that his son's coffee is so terrible he shouldn't foist it off on any potential girlfriends . after a long romance that is quite sweet but meanders frequently , the movie comes to its maudlin conclusion . the result is a mixed bag of a movie ? just right for some viewers but perhaps too clich ? d for others . message in a bottle runs too long at 2 : 12 . the movie is rated for pg-13 for sexuality and a little profanity and would be fine for kids 11 and up . 
this sporadically funny movie's limitations start with the casting and the costuming . there are over a dozen characters in this shoot-and-steal tale , but they can be easily collected into three groups . there are the tall , thin , young white guys , the beefy , middle-aged , white guys , and the mustached , young black guys . the script doesn't do much to differentiate the characters within the three groups . the storyline bounces around like a leaf in the wind . although there are several funny episodes , the picture as a whole never quite gels . if the dialog , mumbled with thick accents , has trouble carrying the movie , the atmospherics are dead-on . filmed by tim maurice-jones with a gritty , dimly lit , sepia-toned look , the movie employs a wide variety of techniques from still pictures to slow motion to fast action . iain andrews's sets are full of convincingly low-rent buildings . the film has several nice small touches . this is the sort of movie in which a stranger in flames comes running out of a bar . he is never seen again , and why he was torched is never quite explained . to the director's credit , he has the good sense to take a serious approach to his bizarre little , dark comedy . scored to loud electric guitar music , the movie is as confidently presented as it is confusing . subplots abound , and since the actors look so much alike , it is frequently unclear whose side each is on . although it ends in a quentin tarantino-style hail of violence , the movie has firmly established british roots . lock , stock & two smoking barrels runs 1 : 46 . it is rated r for strong violence , pervasive profanity , sexuality and drug content and would be acceptable for older teenagers . 
with joseph vilsmaier's warm and radiant cinematography and rolf zehetbauer's handsome period sets , post-world war i germany looks lovely and inviting . the relatively light-hearted story is structured into 3 parts . their memorable songs are of a type that most of you may not have heard before . the lyrics are childlike and silly with occasional and obscure double-entendre -- one such double-entendre mentions " sprouting asparagus , " for example . told you , they were obscure . the movie's best scenes are its simplest . their talents as singers are never in doubt even if their type of music may no longer have the universal appeal it did then . the long middle section of the movie has them , along with their girlfriends , wives , and one-night-stands , living like kings in the best hotels in europe -- their rapid rise to musical stardom being roughly akin to that of the beatles . the movie , which walks a fine line during the first two acts between light musical comedy and history , commits itself in the somber last act to being a message movie . carefree entertainment doesn't switch easily into serious melodrama . try as it will , the movie just isn't able to shift gears properly , despite its good intentions . the result is an enjoyable , historical story with a ponderous and sappy sound of music-style ending . whatever you do , don't leave before the epilogue that reveals what happened to the members of the group as well as to their spouses and lovers . it is not rated but would be an r for brief nudity , sexuality , drug usage and mature themes and would be fine for teenagers . 
in writer and director brandon cole's sweetly quirky and nicely cast o . k . garage , the characters warm your heart even if the script doesn't exactly dazzle your brain . cole , a better director than a writer , gets the staging and the bizarre mood just right . his characters are inviting and charming , more by the way they act than by what they say , their lines having little punch or vibrancy . well regarded actor john turturro , who has been in a host of good supporting roles from quiz show to he got game , is perfectly cast as johnny . the love affair between the two of them shows the most promise , but the story , regretfully , doesn't develop it as it should -- a great missed opportunity . the story really doesn't amount to much , nor does it try to . it's a small character study of two awkward guys who are lost in the world , especially when it comes to love . still , the movie has appeal as it speaks to the loner part of all of us . it is not rated but would be an r for some profanity , sexuality and violence and would be fine for teenagers . 
like a marathon runner , joel schumacher's 8mm dazzles its spectators with its intense dedication and integrity as it stays focused on its goal of creating a taut suspense thriller . then , as it rounds the bend for the last third of the race , it breaks its stride and strolls over for a snack of the cinematic equivalent of junk food , the unnecessary gore of an old slasher flick . after that , it never regains its momentum . worst of all , the viewers may begin to boo their own hero as the film loses all credibility through ridiculous and cliched scenes that should have been left on the cutting room floor . when the movie crosses the finish line , what are we to think of it ? do we remember its flawless execution in the majority of the movie ? or do we forever hold the pathetic final 45 minutes against it ? has the exhilaration of the intelligent suspense of the first part been negated by the schlock of the ending ? there is a scene in which the lead does something so unbelievable that the audience begins to cry out in ridicule . if you were to leave about 5 minutes before that , you would likely be extremely disappointed that you missed seeing the ending of such a breathtakingly marvelous thriller . on the other hand , if you came in late and missed the first two thirds , you would likely think you found a candidate for your worst of the year list . 8mm opens to sinister gray skies and heavy , foreboding music . in a highly nuanced performance , cage illustrates the grime and drudgery of detective work . he does his best to make the believable and the unbelievable equally credible , no small feat in the laughable last act . in contrast , the normally reliable catherine keener , from your friends and neighbors , is given a cliched role as his steadfast wife , which she manages to make even worse than it's written . the unanswered questions are almost endless . who commissioned the film and why ? what role , if any , did the rich woman's husband play ? why choose tom rather than someone else ? the beauty of the first two thirds of the movie is that these and many other questions are resolved slowly and carefully . too many movies rush the investigation phase so they can cut to the action . moreover , the movie is tamer than you might expect during this part , showing the horror of the 8mm tape mainly through the shock in tom's eyes . not too long after this the movie loses all credibility . the early tension in the audience , which is palpable , turns to derision . many of the particularly ridiculous and offensive scenes could easily have been deleted without harm to the consistency of the storyline . surely the test screening audiences must have hated them , so why are they still there ? as the ending credits roll , your reaction is likely to be , " why did they mess up such a promising movie ? " it is rated r for strong violence , perverse sex , nudity , and profanity . it is not a movie for those under 18 . 
as the director told us , he took everything you assume about tough killers and did just the opposite in the design of the character . as in most of the movie , the director cannot resist the urge to telegraph the punch lines to his jokes . we know from the moment we see belushi that he is the movie's yoda figure and isn't a limo driver at all . the director takes this so much to heart that the movie is too predictable . assume the opposite , and you are almost always right . the movie , which is heavy on the sight gags , has them using a tiny men in black-sized gun with a nipple from a baby's bottle for a silencer . for target practice they shoot water-filled balloons with smilies . the movie's proclivity for such excessive " cuteness " may begin to wear on your nerves after a while , but , whenever it does , angel reappears and the movie picks back up again . the movie ends with a twist that is satisfying and only partially predictable . even if it produces few significant laughs , angel's dance is an entertaining motion picture that will leave you smiling . it is not rated but would be an r for some sexuality , profanity , nudity and comic violence and would be fine for most teenagers . 
if you're a woman who has been apprehensive lately about what your life may be like after you reach your 40s and 50s , the motion picture elles may provide just the perfect romantic fantasy for you . director lu ? s galv ? o teles has a vision of your middle age that makes it look downright desirable . ( his vision for the men looks pretty enjoyable too , but the focus in this movie is on the women's lives . ) in short , here is what lies ahead . your looks will be somewhere between attractive and downright gorgeous . with more than enough money , you will be free to pursue your interests , which include having sex with some incredible guys who look like they just left a fashion shoot . and your age will be no problem for the men , even if you are twice their age . and if that doesn't stretch credulity enough , how about this one . the light , upbeat dialog by the director and don bohlinger varies from the trite to the touching . their love making , while not that explicit , displays an intensity rarely seen in american films . the women briefly suffer some crises toward the end of the story , but the director wants to make this a feel good film , so he has them dispatch most of their worries quickly . granted none of this is very credible , but , hey , audiences deserve their dreams . there are more than enough downer movies to see . the film is in french with english subtitles . it is not rated but would be an r for sex , nudity , profanity and one drug usage scene and would be fine for older and mature teenagers . 
with his sarcastic brand of humor , he may remind you of a little less articulate ben affleck . at any rate , phil is an easy guy to like , which helps smooth over the film's many rough edges . a laid back movie , it works best when phil the director , lets phil the actor really cut loose . in one memorable but unprintable piece of dialog he uses an irs reference that is hilarious . more typical of the film is the subtle humor as when one of the other criminals starts kissing one of the hostages . the story has some subplots , but actually a few more complications and subplots would have provided some needed enrichment . one of the best subplots concerns the real-life sid hillman band , which is playing at the party . the movie's big " twist " is so obvious that they might as well as have proclaimed it in the opening credits , but the delicious little twists within twists aren't obvious at all . and any movie that dares to come in at less than an hour and a half deserves a big thanks . too many movies these days wear out their welcome . the party crashers gives you a little entertainment and then the party is over before you know it . it is not rated but would be an r for some profanity , mild violence and a single drug usage scene and would be fine for teenagers . 
in order to get you started , your first assignment will be something simple . you are to write one of those canonical thrillers in which the old reporter searches almost in vain for leads . you can use that old plot device of a clock that counts down the hours . this will provide some pseudo-tension to make up for any shortcomings in your script . make it look like the protagonist has found almost no useful clues until the last act , when near miracles can occur . let's say we have a man on death row . give the reporter less than a dozen hours to solve the crime in hopes that you'll at least have some of the audience on the edge of their seats . now focus all of your creative energy on that obligatory big scene toward the end in which the obviously innocent man is about to be executed . think of all of the ways that you can manipulate the viewers' emotions . if you can get them to cry , you've got 'em hooked . anyone who cries during a movie feels duty bound to recommend it . don't worry that the critics will call the scene manipulative and maudlin ; they don't buy the tickets . and if you're really fortunate , your agent will find you some big name stars to act in the movie , say clint eastwood as the reporter . if they get clint , he'll probably want to direct it as well . make the crime be over some trivial amount , say $96 . clint , in his full laid-back mode , can sometimes put audiences to sleep , so hope that they'll cast some edgier actors against him . denis leary would make a good no-nonsense boss for clint . if you can get him , james woods as leary's boss would certainly add explosive and humorous power to every scene he is in and would likely steal the movie . the studio will probably assign other writers to the project to " help " you . whatever you do , don't be too disappointed with the results . don't forget that your script is just the score , and you have no control if the director decides to conduct it too slowly . finally , with a strong enough cast , the movie will be entertaining even if far from memorable . next time , you can tackle something a little more challenging , like say a teen comedy . it is rated r for profanity and some violence and would be fine for teenagers . 
at a time when american filmmakers like to dichotomize the film world into teen comedies and action dramas , some of the foreign directors are taking some pretty risky approaches . finnish writer and director aki kaurism ? ki , for example , has just made a silent movie , juha , in a handsome and highly detailed black and white . based on juhani aho's 1911 novel , juha is the novel's fourth film adaptation . told with broad strokes , juha never tries to be more than an enjoyable little parody . without a pretentious bone in its body , the movie isn't strictly silent since its contains large helpings of wonderfully over-the-top , melodramatic music , as well as a few hokey sound effects . the rest of the picture concerns his less than honorable plans for marja . juha , which admittedly would have been better as a short , easily wins over the audience with its simplistic charm . it's a fun little film to kick back and savor . it is not rated but might be pg-13 for mature themes , sexual situations , and brief violence and would be fine for kids 12 and up . 
argentinean director martin rejtman's quirky little comedy , silvia prieto , consists of a series of such subplots . i don't know if linguists have studied the speed of delivery of various languages , but i've always had a theory that spanish lends itself to some of the most rapid elocution possible . the characters in silvia prieto have a lot to say , and the poor subtitler can barely keep up . i suspect that the subtitles represent a vastly abbreviated version of the dialog so i fear that the movie will not play as well with non-spanish speaking audiences . nevertheless , the film does have some nice moments in it for those of us who aren't conversant in spanish . she buries her money , and she makes a point of always turning on the hot air dryer in the restroom , even if she's too busy to dry her hands . given this scenario , what would be more appropriate than to show brite the video of their wedding . the deadpan humor takes this all very seriously and naturally . gabriel has many quirks but none more so than his deodorant habit . he also manages the undoable when he simultaneously drops acid , smokes pot and drinks whiskey while staying absolutely clearheaded and articulate . after a series of funny little episodes , the movie ends abruptly . there is a video of the first silvia prieto club meeting , which isn't the least bit funny and feels tacked on as almost an afterthought . the film is in spanish with english subtitles . it is not rated but would be an r for drug usage , sexual situations and a little profanity and would be fine for older teenagers . 
although the picture's glossy finish and relentlessly upbeat music defuse much of the effect of the bittersweet story , the unquestionably strong performance by ben silverstone rises above the film's limitations . even when asked to deliver some pretty stiff dialog , his winsome smile and nervous energy speak more than the lines he is given . we then cut to steven as a 16-year-old . although this behavior carries physical risks , the movie's carefree music makes it sound completely harmless . steven says he is careful , but the dangers in this environment clearly transcend just aids . at any rate , silverstone makes his actions credible , even if perilous . one just wished the filmmaker had not felt compelled to put such saccharin twists on the behavior . " huh ? ' most of the rest of the story is fairly predictable from this point . periodically , the music will stop , the film's momentum will come crashing to a halt , and john or steven will deliver some long monologue , which is scripted earnestly but not well . linda is also the sort of honest and supporting friend that everyone needs . in a year in which every teen movie feels honor bound to end at the prom , this movie doesn't contain a single prom sequence . when the kids get together to dance , they do it , not at some artificial big moment at the movie's conclusion , but just at a normal school dance in the middle of the picture . and they even dare to look like they're having fun dancing . it is not rated but would probably be an r for mature themes , brief nudity and profanity and would be fine for teenagers . 
although the movie is entertaining , it's rarely fresh or imaginative . ron peer's script is quite predictable , once you realize that every relationship will contain a twist . she loves nothing better than engaging in risky sexual adventures . besides being erotic , arquette is also wonderfully quirky . the performances by both mulroney and johnson are bland and unconvincing . the scene in which she and ben almost make love is one of the movie's more promising ones . but , like the rest of the movie , it is only partially successful . the story's comedic role is given to ellen degeneres as cynical sgt . sgt . pompano badmouths everyone and doesn't believe any story she is told . this trait comes in handy since truth is not something that comes easy to the dunmores . the story , which starts off as a promisingly erotic thriller , loses its way by the end of the first act . degenerating into a cinematic retread of many movies you've seen before , it earns that kiss of death summary : it's kind of cute . it is rated r for violence , profanity and sex and would be fine for older teenagers . 
for it's 15th anniversary , jonathan demme's classic concert film stop making sense is being re-released with a new print and a remastered dolby digital soundtrack . starring david byrne as well as the other members of the talking heads , the film is certain to delight their fans . with minimalist staging , lighting and camerawork , the concert documentary may have a more limited appeal for those who aren't fond of byrne's strident singing style . older movies with large cult followings are some of the hardest films to review . people have already made up their minds about them . anything less than complete praise will be derided by their fans . and those who didn't like the movie in the first place probably will not bother to read the review . for the record , i've liked a lot of music movies in which the music was not of the type i normally enjoy . i've loved rock concert movies ( message to love ) , rock documentaries ( hype ! ) and rock musicals ( pink floyd : the wall ) . stop making sense , on the other hand , did nothing for me . with his lean , gangly body , his thin , geekish face and his exaggerated clothing , byrne stands out in any crowd . the guy must be in tip-top shape to endure his performances , and it is easy to see why he remains so lithe . " the girls can do it too ! " called the tom tom club , this silly segment is the film's one attempt at comedy . even though i was glad for a respite from byrne's voice , i missed his stage antics . the movie , filmed at a live concert , consists of a rapid succession of songs without breaks . if you like them , you will probably feel like a kid in a candy shop , in which the owner says you have an hour and a half to eat all the candy you want . and if you don't like the songs , the film can sometimes feel like living next door to a neighbor who plays loud , harsh music that filters through your walls even when you have the windows shut tight . luckily , byrne's high spirits and undeniable charisma offers something for everyone . it is rated pg and has nothing to offend any age . 
if you've never seen films made by african filmmakers before , le franc provides an interesting introduction . written and directed by senegal's djibril diop mamb ? ty , le franc presents a capraesque , good-spirited view of humanity . full of visual humor , the best is the door to which he has stuck the ticket . the movie works on the level of a simple , short story as well as a travelogue to a poor area that few tourists will ever visit . you leave feeling that you know the people a little better even if the tale is a fairly universal one . the most enjoyable part of the movie is unique . an instrument called the congoma provides the film's lovely senegalese rhythms . looking like an extra large shoebox , the brightly painted instrument has a dual purpose -- it also provides sanctuary for the local birds . now , what other country would have such a charming instrument , serving as both birdcage and musical instrument ? le franc runs 45 minutes . the film , which has almost no dialog , is in wolof with english subtitles . it is not rated but would be a g since it has nothing to offend anyone . 
it is even suggested that c ? sar isn't disfigured at all . perhaps , he's told , he's like those anorexic teenage girls who just think they're fat . welcome to the escher world of writer and director alejandro amen ? bar's open your eyes ( abre los ojos ) , a movie that delights in playing tricks with our minds . dreams within dreams within dreams are some of its more straightforward stratagems . as a purposely-confusing mind game of what's real and what's a mirage , the story has an undeniable attraction . like trying to finish the sunday crossword puzzle before your spouse , you're likely to stay glued to the screen . but when it's over , you won't have much more to take away than the puzzle's solution . the characters act like disconnected figures in a video game . the latter character should have been eliminated entirely . with its richly textured music and its striking cinematography , the movie is a feast for the ears and eyes . as the story drags and turns increasingly bizarre , its handsome production makes up for many of its shortfalls . never a bad movie , it's more of a near miss , unlike the other recent spanish film , the lovers of the arctic circle , which is nearly perfect . both films play games with reality and time sequences . c ? sar's experiences are just " one of those candid camera jokes , " antonio suggests . perhaps . when they finally reveal the big secret in the end , you're liable to just shake your head -- both because it's so ludicrous and because you can easily and correctly write the epilogue . the latter is so obvious as to be trite . open your eyes runs too long at 1 : 50 . the film is in rapid fire spanish with english subtitles . it is rated r for sex , nudity , profanity and violence and would be fine for older teenagers . 
lasting almost a decade , this cultural indoctrination was , one assumes , supposed to purge any remaining remnants of bourgeois thought from these intellectuals . the threadbare script by chen and geling yan is based on yan's novel . when the camera has nothing else to do , it points itself to the sky giving us so many cloud sequences that the picture could just as aptly be titled the clouds . the movie starts off promisingly . the lovely chinese actress lu lu plays xiu xiu with an assured grace and a delicate style . noting the raw and inferior quality of toilet paper xiu xiu is likely to encounter , her mother has traded her sugar rations for a large supply of good quality toilet paper . ( this " good " paper looks as rough as cheap paper towels in an american restroom . ) at this point we expect the depiction of xiu xiu's life to show it to be harsh and inhospitable . chen stages scenes for maximum gloss and has xiu xiu made up to look glamorous . this works at cross proposes to what one assumes is chen's intent . the widely acclaimed to live , which covers much of the same ground , makes the tragic scenes as genuine as the joyful ones . chen coats the traumatic moments with the same slick veneer she uses on the lighter ones , thus muting any effect they have on the audiences . the film's actors give everything asked and more . and cinematographer yue lu makes the film too gorgeous for its own good . if you don't watch yourself , you'll be wishing they had inducted you . chen makes living out under the wide and starry sky look pretty appealing . when you leave , you'll undoubtedly think of the beautiful and tranquil xiu xiu with wildflowers dancing all around her . that will likely be the memory that remains , not her tragic moments . the film is in mandarin with english subtitles . it is rated r for strong sexual content and some profanity and would be fine for older teenagers . 
hopkins gets to chew up the scenery again as a killer in instinct , a strange movie that blends elements of the silence of the lambs , one flew over the cuckoo's nest and gorillas in the mist . playing opposite anthony hopkins is another academy award winner , cuba gooding jr . the two of them match wits in an acting battle that's much more interesting than the derivative material they have to work with . the story's big mystery is so obvious that it isn't clear why the people in the movie don't solve it immediately without any further investigation . this part of the story is an embarrassment next to the fine acting of the main story . sadly , this brutal , overcrowded prison theme is allocated large amounts of screen time . and the better part of the story is allowed to drag more times than you can count . with lesser actors in the lead , one suspects the movie might have been unwatchably bad . some movies grow on you after you've seen them . the more you think about the material , the more it seems like such a retread of so many other films . absent the two superlative performances , there is nothing to recommend the picture . instinct runs too long at 2 : 06 . it is rated r for strong violence and some profanity and would be fine for teenagers . 
if you ever find yourself in a simulated world , don't tell the natives . it can be very upsetting to learn that your flesh and blood is just a stream of bits on someone's computer . opening with the " i think , therefore i am " quote of descartes , josef rusnak's the thirteenth floor serves notice that this is a pretentious movie . indeed , the script by josef rusnak and ravel centeno-rodriguez , based on daniel f . galouye's novel " simulacron 3 , " does a masterful job of setting up a plot with an intriguing premise . with shades of the truman show and the matrix , the movie takes so much risk that it is a shame that about its only memorable parts are the cinematography and the set decoration . colored in hazy sepia tones , this attractive world features showgirls that dance the night away to big bands . since hammond fuller had no known relatives , this confuses everyone . the film's coldly antiseptic present matches all too perfectly the style of the acting . none of the characters has any warmth or genuineness . the screenplay has so many logical holes and out-of-left-field events that you're liable to end up snickering at it , as our audience did . and suspension of disbelief is a prerequisite . if you're a grownup and have never been out of town , take this as a sign that something may not be quite right in your world . still , for all of its flaws , the story possesses a strange fascination , and you're unlikely to be bored . " you can't just plug your brain into this machine and not be affected by it , " jane says . watching this movie is like that . it becomes more intriguing that it has any right to be , given its limitations . if you want a good science fiction film , then this frustrating one may not be the one for you . on the other hand , if it's a good-looking science fiction film you're after , then look no further . the thirteenth floor is exquisite eye-candy for the sci-fi set . it is rated r for violence and some profanity and would be fine for teenagers . 
the quinn brothers' this is my father is such an obvious labor of love that it is a shame that it doesn't have more depth . primarily set in a 1939 ireland that seems a half-century earlier still , the film waxes nostalgic for a time that probably never was except in books and motion pictures . starring aidan quinn as kieran o'dea , written with studied simplicity and directed with slow deliberateness by brother paul and filmed in warm tones by brother declan , the movie lists all three as executive producers . as a one-hour episode on television's masterpiece theater , the story's limitations would not have been so obvious . but at a full two hours , the thinnest of the plot and the reliance on stereotypes can get a bit tiresome . all of this notwithstanding , the cast's heartfelt performances raise the picture above the hackneyed storyline . flynn is a spunky lass with a bewitching smile who charms the pants off of o'dea . the movie is full of incidents and plot contrivances that make little sense . in another such disingenuous moment , stephen rea shows up as a fire-and-brimstone priest who , in the confines of the confessional , demands to hear all of the lurid details of o'dea's sexual sins . not content to learn of what o'dea did , the priest , wanting more titillation , insists on knowing everything the sinner would like to do as well . our full audience had one woman who laughed regularly and another who snored loudly , while the rest sat there in almost total silence . slightly humorous and a little poignant , this small movie tells a simple story without many flourishes . still , the grace and earnestness of the performances give the relentlessly corny film a soul that makes it more than the sum of its cliched characters . this is my father runs 2 : 00 . it is rated r for a little profanity and a brief sex scene and would be fine for teenagers . 
ho hum . the big surprise ? with this theme , american pie , which spends half of the movie trying to be a teenage version of there's something about mary , devotes the other half to a sweet story about the awkwardness of sex and the tenderness of one's first intimate relationship . while never fully satisfactory at either , it is a comedy with some nice laughs , and a romance with some sweet moments . although the movie is presented from the boys' point of view , the girls ( mena suvari , natasha lyonne , tara reid , alyson hannigan and shannon elizabeth ) get much better written parts than might be expected . the film moves with relative ease between scenes involving oral sex , masturbation , diarrhea and regurgitation and those of romantic affirmations of love . it is a tribute to writer adam herz and director paul weitz that they manage to put both extreme sexual humor and delicate romance in the same movie without the one completely canceling the other . even so , the blend causes neither to fulfil its promise . the audience is forced to vacillate between emotions , never comfortably settling in either mode . so why did they title it american pie ? don't ask . the pie , like mary's hair " gel , " is the story's comedic centerpiece . suffice it to say that jim , a shy teen with raging hormones , finds something to do with a warm pie that doesn't have a better homes and gardens' seal of approval . it is rated r for strong sexuality , crude sexual dialogue , language and drinking , all involving teens . the movie would be acceptable for older teens . 
( dildos of many colors and sizes , which appear in the film in profusion , apparently are legal , as are the many other sex toys that serve as props in this sexual romp . ) the plot is actually fairly irrelevant in this character-driven story . but the movie makes maggie , rather than kim , the one that makes the first move . all of the characters have their little stories to tell . a treasure trove of sex toys that she finds under maggie's bed serves up one of the funniest and , for lila and the audience , one of the most satisfying scenes . judy performs at a nightclub , in which the performers sing and dance to a host of fun numbers -- the best being " julie christy makes me so misty . " it would have been better left for another movie in which it could be explored with more depth and seriousness . it is in the erotic romance and the quirky comedy that the audiences will find enjoyment and pleasure in better than chocolate . better than chocolate runs 1 : 41 . it is not rated but would be r or nc-17 for strong , explicit sex and nudity and for language and violence . the film isn't appropriate for teens , except for the oldest and most mature . 
do you remember deep throat ? no , not that deep throat . is your knowledge of president richard " dick " nixon and his watergate scandal detailed enough that you can recall all of the major participants and their precise roles in this national tragedy ? if so , then you are in the target audience for andrew fleming's dick -- assuming that you like teen satires . with perhaps the most limited demographics for a movie this year , dick is going to have a hard time appealing to those with less than a completely firm grasp of watergate history . most of the jokes work only if you remember exactly how each of the people looked and acted . saul rubinek , for example , does a masterful turn as henry kissinger , but his performance is funny only if you can remember kissinger well enough to pick up the subtle nuances of rubinek's mannerisms . the story answers other questions about the scandal as well . looking like a cartoon version of the infamous president , dan hedaya gives a remarkably sympathetic portrayal of a man riding through a political hurricane of his own making . the humor tries its best to be topical . the period costumes of wildly colorful clothes for the kids and awkwardly bad suits for the adults are a treat , but most of the movie is just a curiosity piece . in between sporadically funny scenes , you keep wondering why they made it at all . some of the choices for humor are quite bizarre . the mind boggles . it is rated pg-13 for sex-related humor , drug content and language and would be acceptable for kids 10 and up . my son jeffrey , age 10 , gave it * * , complaining that the plot was stupid . 
packed with way too many characters , subplots and small talk , the movie is in bad need of major pruning . still , the best parts can be quite intriguing . ( the movie , without benefit of the digital fig leaves in eyes wide shut , explores some of the same issues . here the scenes are much more explicit , and there is significant violence as well , but this film too is rated r . so much for the eyes wide shut rating controversy . as you can guess , ritchie appears prominent on the list . overlaid over the story is a thick score full of melancholy . lee includes video clips and references to the period , like the 1977 blackout , to give the movie a strong sense of time and place . perhaps those filled with new york nostalgia will forgive the film for its meandering pace and loss of focus . people outside of the five boroughs , on the other hand , may feel like breslin . this is a movie to love and hate equally . it is rated r for strong graphic violence and sexuality , pervasive strong language and drug use and would be acceptable for teenagers only if they are older and mature . 
hollywood is a hotbed of ideas these days . remakes . or so they seem to think . after all , what's easier than remaking a movie that audiences have liked before ? as crass as this approach is , it does produce some modestly entertaining films , the thomas crown affair , directed by die hard's john mctiernan , being one . although this is not particularly inspired casting , neither is a bad choice . crown is a kleptomaniac for the fun of it . he wagers not because he thinks he'll make the putt but because he just enjoys the thrill of the gamble . with brosnan's looks and charm , this is probably the easiest part of the story to believe . the performance by the usually reliable rene russo is another matter entirely . perhaps because action director mctiernan is unable to give her proper guidance or perhaps because of her harsh , heavy make-up , russo delivers a performance that's sometimes funny , but too often stiff . the setup for the movie has a trojan horse full of burglars delivered to what is clearly the metropolitan museum of art in new york . as the tough , by-the-book detective michael mccann , denis leary gives the funniest performance in the movie . the negative chemistry between the two is delicious . at its worst , as in the bizarre character of crown's psychiatrist ( faye dunaway ) , the movie becomes ridiculous . this subplot is a needless distraction in a film that needs more focus and energy . for work of a director known for his proclivity to blow things up , the movie moves at a remarkably languid pace . even if you can guess parts of the ending , the exact way the story gets resolved is a genuine treat . full of inventiveness and audience pleasing twists , the story ends on an especially satisfying high note . it is rated r for sex , nudity and language . if the few nude scenes had been deleted , which would have been a decided improvement , the movie would have been rated pg-13 and appropriate for kids 10 and up . as it is , the movie would be fine for those 15 and up . 
yes , it's true . the right cast can save what would otherwise be an awful movie . think about it . does that or does that not sound like an instant candidate for your list of the worst movies of the year ? well , it isn't . a horror movie that's proud to be a parody , lake placid doesn't have a pretentious bone in its body . the talented cast never makes the mistake of taking the movie seriously , and david e . kelley's biting script is filled with deliciously sarcastic humor . lake placid is the type of movie that the supercilious the haunting should have been . crocodiles are closely related to the dinosaurs , you see . also , they can't run very far on land , but they can out swim any human in the water . the movie ignores all of these facts , but in such a broad comedy it is trivially easy to suspend disbelief . ) " i don't deal well with subtlety . " although the movie has a lot of dead spots , there are several large laughs in it . perhaps the wisest part of the movie is that it has the good sense to be very short . it is rated r for violent creature attacks and related gore and for language and would be fine for teenagers . 
few people saw that movie , perhaps because most people can't get worked up over some guy whose problem is that he's so obnoxious that women don't want to go out with him more than once . a fake documentary about getting killed in the woods by a witch is another matter entirely . one of the biggest art house hits in years , the movie has now crossed over to the commercial theaters as well due to the unprecedented level of interest . made by joint writer and director daniel myrick and eduardo s ? nchez on a sum so small that it would be less that the rounding error on most hollywood films , the movie's financial success is without question . but how about the movie ? having been on vacation during the blair witch project's release and hoopla , i saw the film much later than normal . the idea for the story is undeniably clever . three young adults go into the woods to film a documentary on the blair witch . whoops , i mean these three actors play filmmakers with the same names . if you're the sort who believes that elvis is still alive , you can check out the blair witch project web site , where more " truths " about the project are revealed . this is all quite cute . cute , however , can only go so far . nonetheless , it is easy to admire the filmmakers' audacity . they have certainly tried to craft something unusual . unusual , yes . interesting , no . if you suffer from motion sickness , the camera work will have you looking for the barf bag . imagine your 6-year-old making a home movie , and you'll get some idea of what to expect . we have that on our side . " when the ending credits roll , instead of gasping for breath or thinking about how scared you were , you may find yourself asking instead , " that's it ? that's all there is ? " scary ? not for a second . even so , the next project by these two directors is something to look forward to . it is rated r for language and would be fine for teenagers . 
not much , if they still had the tickets . needless to say , all will not go as planned . in a fan war between kiss and disco aficionados , which side would you bet on ? in six-inch heels , a tiny skirt and enough make-up for a small circus , she's not someone you'd miss noticing , especially if you were a teenage boy with raging hormones . in the funniest section of dialog in the movie , upon seeing christine alone , one of the lads observes , " they make horror movies that start like this . " with a big grin , another remarks , " and porno movies that start like this too . " many of the film's best lines are unprintable snippets of bathroom and sexual humor . the movie isn't exactly high comedy , but it does have just enough laughs to recommend it . not surprisingly , the movie is filled with a heavy , pervasive sound track . the groups range from kiss to tchaikovsky . yes , that tchaikovsky . now , that's a surprise . it is rated r for strong language , drug use and sex-related content and would be fine for teenagers . 
no , jonathan kaplan's brokedown palace is not based on a true story , but most of it plays like some true-life tale that you've read before in your newspaper . where better than thailand -- an exotic and beautiful country in which they've heard that you can live for an entire summer on $500 ? as alice , the poorer of the two , claire danes plays a good kid with a little bit of a wild streak . actually , they are close enough in looks and morals to be non-identical twins . it starts off innocently enough . when the waiter asks their room number for the food and drinks that they ordered , it's easy -- way , too easy -- to just pick some three-digit number at random . " i mean , i've had worse haircuts . " the script by adam fields and david arata has many such tonality problems . on a more positive note , the prison has the feel of a real prison rather than the overdrawn ones typically shown in films . the best of the supporting cast is the ever-reliable bill pullman , as their disheveled and slightly sleazy lawyer , yankee hank . roy's agenda isn't clear , nor is his purpose in the story . the funniest scene in the film , which is either boldly bad or terribly cute , has hank threatening a corrupt official with the most awful retribution america has to offer . imagine barbara , for example , walking through darlene's bedroom on national television as her sobbing parents say that it's just as she left it . sometimes the writers are quite inventive , and other times they borrow heavily from similar movies . the best and worst of the story is its resolution . your thoughts afterwards are liable to be a conflicting mixture of fascination and disbelief . the ending visual image is definitely the low point of the entire movie and the least credible . it is rated pg-13 for brief strong language , drug related material and some violent content and would be fine for kids 12 and up . 
and with captain amazing ( greg kinnear ) garnering all of the television coverage and concomitant product endorsements , it's almost enough to make you want to hang up your kitschy costume and return to a normal lifestyle . kinka usher's hyperactive spoof of comic book action heroes , mystery men , is never less than cute . its shortcoming is that neil cuthbert's superficial script never goes beyond cute . you can count the big laughs on a single hand , but the movie never fails to provide good entertainment . and even if it never wows you , at least the risk taking and imaginative story with its good-spirited hijinks will never disappoint you either . think of it as batman with a heart . the production design and art direction by blade's kirk m . petruccelli and barry chusid are reminiscent of the look of the tim burton batmans . otherwise , more of his sponsors , whose logos he wears on his black jumpsuit , will drop him like they would a soap opera with falling market share . the movie has the good sense to never take itself seriously , making the most ridiculous lines the best . there is only this one small catch . the creative story manages to find a use for this highly limited talent . it's a good sign when a movie is able to find something a little different to do with the overworked flatulence jokes . all of this cliched wisdom drives the word-challenged mr . furious into his signature fits of anger . " i don't need a compass to tell me which way the sun shines , " he tells the sphinx . as perhaps the funniest of the lot , janeane garofalo plays the bowler . stiller doesn't do much with his part , except in his scenes with garofalo . together , their snappy , sarcastic chemistry steals the scenes . there's a plot , but it doesn't really matter . the movie just jumps from one nice visual to another . every once and awhile , the scenes are funny enough to produce outright laughter . the now moribund batman series could use some doses of mystery men's self-mocking humor . there isn't much to mystery men , but what there is will keep a smile on your face . it is rated pg-13 for comic action violence and crude humor and would be fine for kids 8 and up . my son jeffrey , age 10 , liked it and gave it * * 1/2 . he thought it was an imaginative film with a lot of action . 
" do you ever feel alone ? " most queries he gets are more intimate and crude . they co-wrote the script , and michael directed the movie . in her film debut , fashion model michele hicks gives a passable performance as penny . the deliberately slow movie , which is told in whispers and low voices , is a tragedy with comedic overtones . with heavy , soulful flute and clarinet solos and filmed in dark , somber colors , the picture has a mesmerizing quality . " maybe i'll call you when i'm single , " blake tells penny once with prophetic sadness . part of the movie deals with the brothers' intense and unusual mental bonding . another concerns the more sensational aspects of being what used to be called siamese twins . " you don't think i can identify with them ? " he asks . " i've got a woman inside of me screaming to get out . " even if the acting by the brothers is astonishing , the story drifts hopelessly and is ultimately just a curiosity piece . a tender and well-made one , but a curiosity piece nonetheless . it is rated r for brief profanity and would be fine for kids 12 and up . 
shiloh , a sad but lovable little beagle and one of the cutest dogs around , is back for his second movie in shiloh 2 : shiloh season , a direct-to-video sequel to shiloh , a movie that two years ago garnered so much critical acclaim . the new story about the power of " a little bit of kindness " is full of old-fashioned values and homespun wisdom . it tries hard to teach without being preachy . some of the cast is back from the original , but many are new . dale rosenbloom again writes the script , this time based on the second in phyllis reynolds naylor's shiloh trilogy , which means that we can probably expect a shiloh 3 . he's also a tobacco spitter , which can be pretty gross on the screen and thoroughly defines his character . whereas most kids' movies suffer from having villains that aren't real , judd , a wiry loner , is exactly the explosive type of individual who is so scary in real life . " some people never change , and judd's one of them , " he decides at one point , tired of trying hard to be kind to judd without receiving any positive response from him . generally , adults populate the story to provide prepackaged bits of wisdom for marty to ponder and act upon . " sometimes you get a streak of bad luck that you can't do anything about , and sometimes you get a streak of bad luck that's your own fault , " doc tells marty about the troubles judd has had to face in his life . she tries to show them that even the lowest of the low , like judd , should be judged only on what they know for sure and certain and have seen with their own eyes . of course , marty has personally witnessed how wicked judd can be , but the teacher's point is a good one nevertheless . the movie , which plays like a good episode of a television series , is filled with strong moral lessons if not as much action or interest as it needs . ( small but irritating production mistakes mar its presentation . one of the key nighttime scenes , for example , is lit as bright as day . ) predictable but honest , it just doesn't pack the emotional wallop of the original . still , for a pleasant family film with likeable characters and a moral message around every corner , shiloh 2 fills the bill . it is rated pg for mild thematic elements and would be fine for all ages . my son jeffrey , age 10 , called it " such a sweet little movie " and gave it * * * 1/2 . normally quiet during a movie , he kept speaking up during this one to say how good it was . 
the muse , directed by brooks and written by brooks and monica johnson , plays like an in-joke to brooks himself , since he clearly seems to have lost some of his edge in crafting it . a writer and comic who's the best when he's the nastiest , brooks creates for himself a character that's way too accommodating and sweet . at its high points , as in its numerous cameos , the movie can be quite funny . between these islands of laughter , however , lie too many deserts of blandness . his time alone with cinematic royalty doesn't turn out to be quite what he expected . " just remember , make it in color , " stan says . " people like color . " unless you've hired one before , you probably have no concept of the enormous cost involved in hiring a muse . as a would-be mrs . fields , laura is played in an awkward and wooden performance by andie macdowell . in a movie that needs more drive , macdowell functions as the production's black hole , sucking the energy out whenever she appears . where is a muse when you need one ? the muse runs 1 : 37 . it is rated pg-13 for brief nudity . it would be fine for kids 9 and up , but they would probably need to be teenagers to enjoy it . 
regret to inform is the moving , but frustrating , documentary that she made about her experience as well as those of various american and vietnamese widows . handsomely filmed by emiko omori , daniel reeves and nancy schiesari , the images make the tragic story palpable . silly as it might seem , when a section of the vietnam memorial was shown , i tried hard to catch a glimpse of some of the names of my friends who perished . not to do so would have felt like a disservice to them . civil wars , like those in vietnam or korea in which the us chose to participate , have at best a fleeting glory . movies such as regret to inform keep these important memories alive . the significant downside to regret to inform is that it is essentially a propaganda piece since its views are completely one-sided . sonneborn turns a gut-wrenchingly complex situation into a simplistically easy one . she points out that the people of vietnam call it the american war , as if that were a major revelation . if you know nothing about the war ( many of the kids in our schools today know little ) , then this documentary would leave you with two strong impressions . first , the barbaric americans invaded a helplessly agrarian society for no obvious purpose . although we hear again and again about all of the wrongs that the americans committed , never do we hear anything about the vietnam civil war , communism vs . democracy or the vietnamese atrocities against the americans . documentarians can produce good movies even if they are slanted . regret to inform does this , for which it should be commended . it is not rated but would be pg-13 for some war footage and would be fine for kids around 12 and up . 
but -- horror of horrors ! dancing and prancing with exuberant confidence , he still doesn't get in . " you told me you were a banker , " she says . most of the lightweight jokes in john blumenthal's script are at that level , producing many a nice grin , but no big laughs . the movie's trailers , thanks to much punchier editing , make the script's best jokes come alive . with the film's more languid pacing , they come across flat . some have been eliminated entirely . if you've seen the trailers , you can easily fix your expectations for the movie itself , which is a notch below them in quality . the good-spirited movie breaks no new ground . the tired buddy format has been used hundreds of times before -- sometimes better , sometimes worse . lawrence proves a likable lead and there's nothing much in the film to criticize or to praise . it's an inconsequential movie that you'll enjoy while watching but forget completely by the time you get to the parking lot . it is rated pg-13 for some profanity and violence and would be fine for kids age 9 and up . my son jeffrey , age 10 , really liked it and gave it * * * 1/2 . he especially liked the show's twists and the ending . 
with lots of bullets that go zing , landmines that go boom , and vehicles that explode into fireballs , three kings would seem to have all of the ingredients , including a big name star ( george clooney ) , for a traditional summer movie . that the studio has released the picture instead in the fall , along with other oscar hopefuls , shows that they want us to view the picture as something significant . regardless of its hype and its respected writer/director , david o . russell ( spanking the monkey and flirting with disaster ) , three kings is really just a big-budget hollywood action picture , filled with lots of violence and explosions , masquerading as an art film . the film's showy look , like that of a cheap motel television in which the color and the brightness are turned to maximum , serves notice that three kings expects to be taken as something more than just another shoot 'em up . with his home movie-making proclivity for fast pans and zooms , the director manages to keep the audience's attention , which is important since the story frequently drifts aimlessly , getting lost in the desert as often as the movie's protagonists . adrianna , the story's only wholly comedic character , is not one to be messed with . " i try to be substance based and not style based , " she explains . ( if you've ever attempted to pick up a bar of gold , as i have , you know how ludicrous this movie's version is . along the way there are some funny moments mixed in with the gore that is carefully designed to having every one in the audience grimacing . do we really need to see an inside , slow-motion view of the damage a bullet can do to our internal organs ? the movie's funniest moment comes when one of the reservists gets trapped and ends up rifling through a box of stolen cell phones . although it's never a bad film , it rarely rises much above a typical action one , even given its pretentious filming style . a movie in need of pruning , it still provides good entertainment value . go with low expectations , and you'll be satisfied although perhaps not impressed . and if you want to wait for video , the movie , with its " artistic " imitation of a bad color television , will lose nothing when shown on a smaller screen . it is partially in iraqi with english subtitles . the film is rated r for graphic war violence , language and some sexuality . it would be acceptable for teenagers only if they are older and can handle horrific images . 
a completely formulaic thriller , double jeopardy by bruce beresford ( driving miss daisy ) manages to be more fun than it has any right to be . the script by david weisberg and douglas cook is full of those moments so ridiculous that the audience cries out in warning . the characters , who apparently aren't listening , go ahead and make one stupid mistake after another . so what is the secret that almost saves it ? jones pops one-liners with great glee . the casting of the wife proves problematic . as elizabeth , ashley judd delivers half of a good performance . when the script calls for cute , she is absolutely adorable . in a thriller , however , judd is also expected to act scared . in this movie , she seems constitutionally incapable of showing fright . think you might scream uncontrollably ? think you might appear tremendously frightened ? the whole first act of the story has a completely inappropriate serenity to it , as if beresford doesn't seem to realize its dramatic demands . the less said about the story's conventional ending , the better . still , as a comedy with a couple of likable leads , the movie delivers . it is rated r for language , a scene of sexuality and some violence and would be fine for teenagers . 
" like fruit , it can be good and then be rotten in an hour . " the problem with judith's home life is that , no matter how much she might like to think otherwise , it has always been in a state of decay . sometimes they'd move just because the parents felt like it . as judith , heather matarazzo gets her first meaty role since 1996's welcome to the dollhouse -- my absolute favorite film that year . but like a screenwriter in the making , he just needs to overhear a single sentence , and he can concoct an elaborate story for them , which the movie shows as a flashback . always kind of interesting , but rarely compelling , getting to know you never quite gels . it drags frequently , probably because the director is still learning her craft . although it has some charm and poignancy , the story never quite draws you in . the premise of a character who makes up stories was done recently and better in the chambermaid . only in the sad tale of the dysfunctional family does the movie deliver much emotional payoff . but this is a well-traveled theme in modern movies , and getting to know you doesn't break any new ground . a pleasant but predictable film , it does contain likeable performances by the talented weston and matarazzo . it is not rated but probably would be pg-13 for mature themes , language and a little violence . 
writer/director glen goei's that's the way i like it ( called forever fever in some countries and don't call me john travolta in others ) is set in singapore in the 1970s , when disco fever there was red hot . the film's wonderful sound track is full of good 70s tunes . the brooklyn accent proves the harder of the two accents in the movie to understand . ) the story , which works best when it's on the dance floor , has hock going too fast from clumsy to accomplished , missing many humorous opportunities to show him learning his new skill . instead of more dance numbers we get some subplots out of left field . one of the funniest scenes has hock trying on various outlandish disco wardrobes . like the much better shall we dance , the film has us rooting for him , even if the outcome of the big competition is never really in any doubt . " remember the more you dance , the more you romance , " the dance instructor lectures hock and the rest of his pupils . the movie should have taken his advice . way too much time is spent in lame comedy off the dance floor . otherwise , it drags like an old lawrence welk 78 record played on 33 1/3 . that's the way i like it runs 1 : 32 . it is rated pg-13 for momentary language and some violence and would be fine for kids 10 and up . 
indeed , the musical numbers are the film's best part , even if none come close to being memorable . mitchell kriegman's script is the movie's weakest link , giving the film slightly less punch than a typical television episode from the series . in our packed audience , filled with kids from toddlers on up , the laugh quotient was remarkably modest . typical of the picture's humor is the location of the villain's home -- it's " high atop mount pick-a-nose . " kriegman throws the adults in the audience a few random funny lines . with its 3 to 5-year-old target audience , the movie stops the action , literally , whenever anything threatening occurs . also interactive , the movie requires audience participation , lest bad things happen to its protagonist . elmo , for example , needs us to come up with 100 raspberries in less than 30 seconds to convince the queen of trash ( vanessa l . williams ) that he isn't a cohort of the nefarious huxley ( mandy patinkin ) . the movie keeps a dynamic count on the screen , so you may want to practice in advance . even if the film isn't all it could be , some scenes are special . the most magical is one filled with fireflies . it is rated g and would be fine for all ages . my son jeffrey , age 10 , gave it * * , liking mainly the music . his friend alan , age 10 , gave it * * * , finding the movie hilarious but the plot weak . 
as directed by pollack and scripted by kurt luedtke , based on warren adler's novel , the frequently enthralling film is needlessly frustrating . pollack sets a languid pace , bringing in the picture at an unnecessarily long 2 : 11 , but then doesn't take the time to setup the pivotal scenes in the story . the net result is that incidents that would work quite well with proper motivation instead come completely out of left field , turning possibly plausible actions into ridiculously unbelievable ones . remarkably demure for a politician , she can honestly claim a spotless background . ford chews up the scenery as his character stays constantly at the boiling point . the abruptness of this transition is one of the movie's key downfalls . with some buildup , this could have been a powerful scene . instead , it came across so awkward and unbelievable that it generated snickers from our audience . ( another equally improbable scene happens earlier in the picture . although he's not at all sure of either , he gets a plastic bag and removes every personal item of hers from the house . for all of the movie's problems , the performances by the two leads are always interesting . expressing so much while showing so little , thomas gives an endearing yet remote performance as kay . the chemistry between dutch and kay , however , never quite reaches a convincing level . individually their performances are excellent , but somehow the mix never seems quite right . the supporting cast of the movie is superlative , down to the third string . pollack was able to attract actors would normally demand much larger parts . carl doesn't care much about kay's tragedies , he's more interested in how to mold public opinion about them . as a romance , random hearts comes very close to working . as a character study , it constantly fascinates . but as a movie , it's a mess . it plays like one of those test screens in which studios show works in progress in order to gather audience feedback so they can see how to reedit the film and see what scenes need to be added . random hearts , however , appears to have skipped that step , or , if they had it , they must not have paid proper attention to viewer response cards . it's all such a shame . there's a wonderful movie buried here , but they released it before they finished it properly . random hearts runs way too long at 2 : 11 . it is rated r for brief violence , sexuality and language and would be fine for teenagers . 
indian writer/director deepa mehta , as she showed in her previous movie ( fire ) , knows how to construct a film with great visual panache . her downfall is that her stories and her actors remain at the level of soap operas -- lovely to look at but lacking much substance . it is a happy time . typical of the fluffy dialog is a gorgeous scene during a spring festival as colorful kites dot the heavens . " woo it . the tranquility of the movie's first half dissolves into civil unrest in the second half . most of the action consists of mobs storming up and down streets as they shout insults and slogans . mehta's downfall is that she continues to be more of a visual stylist than a story teller . most scenes are handsome , but few contain much significant content . the film's beauty ends up working against itself as the people become cartoons in something like a children's story of an historical event . when bad things happen , they seem distant and unreal so that the events pack little emotional wallop . the film is in english as well as hindi , urdu , parsee and punjabi with english subtitles . it is not rated but might be pg-13 for language and violence . it would be fine for teenagers . 
with lips that advance and recede like ocean surf and with eyes that roll like ocean swells , she delivers a sweet and delicately nuanced performance . much less satisfying is susan sarandon as ann's irritating and flamboyant mother . the chemistry between them is sometimes interesting but never quite believable . sarandon successfully makes her character unlikable but has trouble making it credible . a hybrid that the press notes describe as a " comedy-drama , " the movie suffers from never being enough of either . the tone is that of a drama , yet the memorable lines are those of a comedy . the result is a drama that doesn't have much emotional impact and a comedy that produces a few random smiles and almost no laughs . " i wish somebody would have kidnapped me when i was your age , " her mother retorts . " so do i ! " ann snaps back . " i'm going to go shopping . " this attitude of spend more than you make pretty much sums up adele's philosophy of life . when you want to be rich , spend like you are and make up stories about your wealth . even if the movie has to be categorized as a near miss , portman's work in it is completely satisfying in its subtle emotional depth . watching her work is almost worth the price of admission . anywhere but here runs 1 : 54 . it is rated pg-13 for sex-related material and would be acceptable for kids around 10 and up . the slow-paced movie , however , will probably bore those less than 13 or 14 . 
" goodbye sweet grasses . " " that's it ? " the delightfully cute zellweger represents everything that is right about the bachelor . one person does not a romance make . in contrast , the incredibly bland o'donnell shows what's wrong with the movie . never credible as a romantic figure in the story , he is required to setup the comedy parts . " what you think ? " " you think you some kind of comedian ? " the movie , which features too much o'donnell and not enough zellweger , places its bet heavily on the comedic side of the romantic comedy equation . the result is a story that definitely has its moments but overall just fizzles . most of the movie concerns jimmie's frantic search for another bride . needless to say , jimmie will mess up the proposals to his ex-girlfriends almost as badly as he did with his one to anne , whom he still loves . think you can guess the ending ? besides a few quite humorous scenes , the script for the bachelor has one nice serious one . " it's a great thing when you grow old to have someone look in your face and see what you think you look like , " the priest says in the movie's only truly insightful scene . if it's a comedy , then there just aren't enough laughs . if it's supposed to be a romance , then they should have cast someone who could have created some genuine chemistry with zellweger . a sporadically enjoyable movie , it leaves you wishing zellweger had been given a lot more screen time . it is rated pg-13 for language and would be fine for kids about 9 and up . in the san jose area it will be playing at the amc and century theaters . 
sweet and lowdown , written and directed by woody allen , tells the story of emmett ray , the world's second greatest jazz guitarist . told in talking-head documentary style by jazz historians , the movie paints a vivid portrait of an artist who never really existed . he also steals , but that's just because he's a kleptomaniac . more likely , it's because she demands so little of him . blanche may have the looks that hattie doesn't , but she shows neither the love nor the loyalty . the stories are pleasant enough but not exactly compelling . sometimes there are even different versions of the same story . other times , a speaker will tell a story but question the veracity of the person he heard it from . thanks to fei zhao's radiant cinematography , the picture looks terrific . shot in warm tones of burgundy and gold , the foreground contrasts nicely with the cold , gray , overcast skies . in a movie in which so little happens -- emmett likes to wile away his time shooting rats at the dump and watching trains -- the visuals provide much of the enjoyment . the script is remarkably bereft of memorable lines and lacks much of allen's signature comedic punch . the movie's fatal mistake is the remarkably underwhelming playing by this putatively famous guitarist . although the film's jazz background score is lush , emmett's playing isn't . the song he plays most often isn't likely to wow audiences in the first place -- " i'm forever blowing bubbles . " why couldn't they have come up with more impressive musical choices for such a jazz great ? when emmett plays , it's quite pleasant but rarely more than that . it is rated pg-13 for sexual content and some substance abuse and would be fine for teenagers . 
since tumbleweeds opened right on the heels of the remarkably similar anywhere but here , let's make it clear which is which . the differences are in the casting and the budget . the more critically acclaimed and obviously lower-budget film is tumbleweeds . the slice of life story is remarkably uneventful and rarely compelling . generally avoiding clich ? s , the movie's typical scene is ava's first day at school . in the movies it is de rigueur for the other kids to ridicule any new kids in class . much of the story is quite predictable . laurie goes on to detail the joys that coffee enemas can bring . it is rated pg-13 for language , sensuality and a scene of domestic discord and would be acceptable for teenagers . 
for the movie's 60th anniversary , disney has devised an almost all-new film ; only mickey's famous " sorcerer's apprentice " segment remains . fantasia , perhaps cinema's most beloved musical montage , has not merely been updated . it has an entirely new medium for its latest incarnation . disney decided that they would shoot it in imax , a format normally reserved for films in which the viewers vicariously risk their lives climbing mountains ( everest ) or riding roller coasters ( thrill ride ) . the resulting film , fantasia/2000 , is a real treat for the ears . it is in the visuals that the movie comes up so short that it has to be labeled a disappointment . given the three-dimensional realism that we've seen this past year from disney ( tarzan ) , pixar/disney ( toy story 2 ) and other studios ( the princess mononoke ) , most of the illustrations in fantasia/2000 look flat and uninviting by comparison . then there is the choice of imax as the medium , which might seem a cute idea but turns out to be a fundamental mistake . blown up several stories high , the animation's flaws are magnified . what should be compelling instead turns out to be too busy and garish as gigantic images flash across the screen . mickey's segment , especially , suffers by being stretched . why they didn't repaint the colors is a mystery because it leaves this episode looking needlessly dated due to its grainy texture . when it ends , they cut to a properly colored mickey , which just emphasizes the inadequate restoration of the original portion . fantasia/2000 isn't a bad movie , just one with so much potential that it causes you to dwell on its flaws . take the whale sequence . as these beautiful animals frolic and splash in the ocean , the director decided not to include any sound effects . normally such a scene would have had some realistic water sounds overlaid with the music . without them , the piece has a strangely remote and detached feeling . go in with low expectations , try not to be too demanding when it comes to the animation and fantasia/2000 will prove a pleasant enough experience . just try to forget how good it could and should have been . it is rated g and would be fine for all ages , although many kids will be bored as there is little plot to hold their attention . my son jeffrey , age 10 , liked the movie enough to give it * * 1/2 . it was so different for him that he didn't know quite what to make of it or how to rate it . he liked most of the segments , except the ending one , which he found too fast and confusing . 
with strong performances by winona ryder , angelina jolie and an ensemble cast , the film can be thought of as a female version of one flew over the cuckoo's nest . once there , she is diagnosed with " borderline personality disorder , " a disease that's as mild as it sounds and probably afflicts half of the country . the movie's problems start here . rather than concentrating on susanna's case , the democratic script feels duty bound to let everyone tell their story . this lack of focus is frustrating . although the other characters -- the burnt girl , the bulimic girl , the lying girl , the anorectic girl , the fat girl , etc . -- each have interesting moments on stage , they take away time better devoted to the central story . certainly , when we do learn more about susanna's life , it is frighteningly fascinating . given equal screen time , lisa is an even more frustrating character than susanna . we learn little about lisa other than her behaviors , which include leading her band in various sophomoric stunts like breaking into the principal's -- oops , i mean the therapist's -- office , after lights out . the movie , which sometimes reminds one of a silly teen comedy , can be quite funny at times , usually to the detriment of the drama . it isn't until the last act that he tosses out all pretense of humor and sticks to the dramatic . the surprise is that , rather than improving the movie , it makes you realize that it's only as a comedy that this movie really works . the truth to susanna's real mental problems , if there are any , isn't revealed in the picture . this is a shame since the movie makes it easy to empathize with her predicament . the film just leaves you feeling empty and wanting to know more . it is rated r for strong language and content relating to drugs , sexuality and suicide . it would be acceptable for older teens . 
snow falling on cedars is a silent movie . well , not exactly , but director scott hicks ( shine ) does rely chiefly on tableaux to tell the story , which is based on david guterson's well-respected novel . this isn't quite as hopeless as it might seem , since robert richardson's breathtaking cinematography of the pacific northwest during the snowiest winter in decades is nothing short of astounding . couple this with gorgeous settings and richly evocative music , and you've got a movie that's a real treat for the eyes and the ears . your mind , however , will not be equally engaged . cutting back and forth in time and locale , hicks only confuses the viewers . if these visual slights of hand served some purpose it might be different , but they don't . at the center of the story is a fascinating trial . hawke ( before sunrise ) , who is an accomplished actor , isn't able to do anything with his part in this picture because of the restrictions placed upon him by the director . hicks strategically places ishmael in each scene and then has him look as stoic as possible while saying absolutely nothing . stone statues have more warmth . although the trial sequences are mesmerizing , hicks uses them only as a glue to hold the rest of the story together . the script by hicks and ronald bass devotes most of the movie to the long background material on the years before the trial . as we spend long minutes observing native flora , the movie takes on the same remote and dispassionate feel found in the thin red line . whether it will be enough to save his client is , nonetheless , questionable . paced faster and with much of the extraneous material pruned back , snow falling on cedars could have been an outstanding motion picture instead of merely a handsome one . posturing as an art form works for painters , but the technique isn't suitable for an action medium . hicks should have given hawke some meaningful lines and let him out of his straightjacket . together they could have fashioned something wonderful . it is rated pg-13 for disturbing images , sensuality and brief strong language and would be fine for teenagers . 
the beach , directed by danny boyle ( trainspotting ) , is an entertaining , but not especially original , adventure yarn . the film works as a star vehicle for leonardo dicaprio , but the rest of the casting is singularly uninspired . the easy to cast role of the alluringly gorgeous french woman , for example , is given to virginie ledoyen , who looks and acts particularly bland . still , as a travelogue from hell , the picture does have its charms . even at its most enjoyable , the film loses a certain amount of credibility from the sense of d ? j ? vu that it evokes . if it were better than some of the movies that it imitates , this might not be a problem , but there isn't a scene which isn't stronger in the original . most people would beat a hasty retreat at this point , but not our hedonists . would you be willing to risk your life to get to it ? now , be honest , don't you think you can guess the rest of the movie ? well , you can . think that the commune's peaceful coexistence with the dope growers will last ? see , you could have written the screenplay . some of boyle's staging choices are particularly surprising . and the star is french no less . richard's rich narration is one of the film's chief allures along with its gorgeous scenery and dreamy music . " i found that love , like grief , tends to fade away and be replaced by something more exciting , " he remarks at the start of his descent into madness . sal certainly doesn't want anything to spoil her clan's fun . she'll do whatever it takes to keep the good times rolling . the movie , which does have its pleasures , could have been so much better if they hadn't blown their bankroll on dicaprio . his performance is good , but not strong enough to carry the entire picture . it is rated r for strong violence , some strong sexuality , language and drug content . it would be acceptable for older teenagers . 
but not trying to leave was almost as risky since anyone could denounce you at anytime for any reason , causing the same result . as directed by r ? gis wargnier and written by sergei bodrov and louis gardel , the film is populated with characters who ring just a few notes shy of true . the chemistry between marie and alexei never seems genuine , and the writers have them casually sleeping around with next-door neighbors and coworkers . certainly incidents like that happened , but here it feels awkwardly grafted onto the story like sticking a cherry limb onto an oak tree . too often murky and with too many characters , the film works best when the director focuses attention firmly on the leads and their actions . for a similar , much better film , see lucie aubrac . in it , the acting was stronger and the directing sharper . one cannot but appreciate the hardships that the people under communism faced . east-west does succeed in reminding us of that . the film is in french and russian with english subtitles . it is not rated but might be pg-13 for wartime violence and would be fine for teenagers . 
the movie is an audacious spectacle that blends a wide variety of timeframes from ancient rome to the modern day . other directors have shown in the last few years that more modern adaptations of shakespeare can work marvelously well . richard loncraine's richard iii and baz luhrmann's romeo + juliet were lucid and involving tales based on the bard's works . taymor's bold picture outdoes the others in production design and choreography . what it lacks is a cohesive structure and perspicuous storytelling . her vision is as murky as the others were straightforwardly appealing . to be fair , " titus andronicus " isn't exactly a play in which any of the lines are familiar . one could argue that the play's obscurity is well deserved . some have even argued that shakespeare wasn't the author anyway . the film's casting is superb , even if the acting isn't at the level that you would expect from such a talented group of actors . anthony hopkins rants and raves his way through the lead role as titus andronicus . titus is a pretty vicious guy , a part that is a natural for anthony 'hannibal lecter' hopkins . the wonderfully inventive and massive architecture looks as if it were designed by nazi architect albert speer . the costumes are to die for . it looks so heavy that it's amazing that she can stand up without falling over . among the story's many in-jokes is the radio station that covers the emperor's broadcasts -- spqr news . if you don't know what spqr stands for , you should have paid more attention to history when you were in school . one of my favorite episodes is the one that starts the film . in it is planted the hint that what might have saved rome from its infamous fall was better toy action figures . trying to describe my feelings about the film , i kept thinking of how my son describes such situations : " it was -- well -- innnnnnnnnteresting . " although i personally found much to admire in titus's sets , music and costumes , i can't bring myself recommend the film itself . my suspicion is that the average moviegoer will hate the picture . shakespeare buffs , on the other hand , will certainly want to give the picture a try and judge for themselves whether taymor's effort is worthwhile . titus runs a long 2 : 42 . it is rated r for strong violent and sexual images and would be acceptable for older teenagers . 
the virgin suicides -- a title to be taken literally -- marks the feature film debut of sofia coppola as a writer and director . with its morose subject matter , this comedy would certainly have to be classified as a black comedy , but its tone is disarmingly light . some films leave their audiences uneasy until the viewers sink into the film's rhythms and approach , but not the virgin suicides , which constantly confounds while it intrigues . don't be surprised if you never laugh , and yet you somehow find the film strangely captivating nevertheless . the film's humor is so dry and subtle that is easy to miss . the participants wear gas masks and smoke big cigars to enhance the mood . what makes the picture is the deliciously wicked performance by kirsten dunst ( drop dead gorgeous and dick ) . she keeps you on your toes guessing what she will do next , with her best scene involving a simple footsie under the table . the problem with the script , which is based on jeffrey eugenides's novel , is that most of the incidents have been done before and better . overall the picture feels like a pale imitation of harold and maude . all of the above notwithstanding , the movie has a captivating aspect that's hard to describe . still , it is one that would be hard to recommend and that leaves you feeling strangely ambivalent as to whether you liked it or not . it's frequently intriguing , and yet never quite satisfying . it is not rated but would probably be an r for drug usage , underage drinking , language and mature themes including teenage suicide . the movie would be acceptable only for high school seniors and above . 
kenneth branagh and kevin kline , as the voices of two sixteenth-century conmen from spain , are the comics around whom dreamworks's animated movie , the road to el dorado , is built . upon the shoulders of these wise-cracking characters , who are in just about every scene , rest the success or failure of the movie . once inside the famous city , they are welcomed into a colorful kingdom that looks like a new disneyland attraction -- sorry , dreamworks . for reasons which aren't clear , directors bibo bergeron and will finn are never able to make effective use of their expensive voice talent . only perez's spunky voice is recognizable . the rest sound blandly homogeneous like interchangeable radio newscasters . the lively music for the picture features 6 original songs sung by elton john . the movie's music and visuals easily surpass the story itself , which only works in fits and spurts . one good joke is followed by a half-dozen ones that aren't . the result is a movie that's kind of cute but rarely anything more . the film is rated pg for mild thematic material , brief male nudity and language and would be fine for most kids of any age . my son jeffrey , age 10 , gave the picture * * * , but he complained that the ending was too abrupt . his buddies , nickolas and alan , both 10 , gave the picture * * * 1/2 . all of the boys said that they thought the story was really funny and that their favorite characters were the horse and the monster . 
writer/director jim jarmusch's movies are frequently described as an acquired taste , as in a taste that most viewers will never have nor care to . personally , i have found some of his movies ( dead man ) absolutely mesmerizing and worth many viewings and others ( stranger than paradise ) almost unwatchable . his latest , ghost dog : the way of the samurai , falls somewhere in-between for me . as the movie advances , it stops regularly for long passages of the samurai code to be displayed on the screen . ( " matters of great concern should be treated lightly . the problem with the passages is that many are obtuse , and frequently their relationship to the action is relatively minimal . the film works best when it goes for dead-pan comedy . " what are you gonna do ? " this fatalistic humor resonates with the audience , but it doesn't occur nearly often enough . the visuals of the " made men " , who've never met a cannoli they didn't like , trying to run up stairs are funny , as are the scenes of these would-be sumo wrestlers bonding with each other with lots of bear hugs . is there a market for self-consciously stylish movies about gangsters if the films operate in what seems like slow-motion ? jarmusch's die hard fans will certainly want to see ghost dog . it is rated r for strong violence and language and would be acceptable for older teenagers . 
stop me if you've heard this one before . okay , so you've heard more permutations of this story that you can count . second-time director david hubbard , whose first offering was the abysmal trippin' , makes a more satisfying , if not very original , film this time -- a teenage romantic comedy called whatever it takes . although it has all of the requisite bathroom humor and underage drinking that i'm sorry to say that many teens want in their movies , it also has some good messages about the consequences of your actions and has some likable leads . it certainly isn't anything memorable , but it's a slightly above the average member of its genre . the movie tries to make you believe that he only has the former . maggie , of course , is the biggest knockout in the movie with a killer body and an electric smile that would light up broadway . he'd no sooner have romantic intentions for her that he would for a sibling . well , you get the idea . needless to say , all four of them will be surprised with the results . when an awkward ryan tries to shake ashley's hand rather than kiss her at the end of their double date , schwahn manages to have her surprise us . similarly , the story's ending contains a well deserved , albeit a bit sadistic , comeuppance . so does the movie end in a prom ? as teenagers would say , " well , duh ! " talk about telegraphing your punches . when the predictable movie ends , what you're likely to remember , however , aren't its flaws , of which there are many , but maggie and ryan . they are two adorable characters who win your hearts even if the rest of the picture doesn't . it is rated pg-13 for thematic elements , sexual material and language . the movie would be acceptable for teenagers , preferably older ones . 
a simple and sometimes poignant tale , the story is completely overwhelmed by the picture's lush visuals . much like martin scorsese's kundun , the film's enjoyment stems mainly from its look . the story is so minimal that it is barely present . the movie consists of small vignettes . most scenes celebrate the joys of the iranian countryside , where the film is set . the problem with all of this pastoral beauty is that , with the absence of much dialog , the picture is frequently sleep inducing . the gripping ending makes the film much more intense than its pg rating would imply . nevertheless , it is the best part of the movie . the film is in persian with english subtitles . it is rated pg for thematic elements and would be fine for kids around 11 and up . 
it's just polite small talk so he starts off with a typically meaningless response . " i don't know how she is , actually . " and then most candidly of all , he concludes , " i don't know what i'm saying . " with a warmly evocative look , the picture feels eerily like it will turn into a twilight zone episode at any moment , but it never does . the characters exist on two levels . the problem with the script is that it creates a highly polished surface gloss but never does more than hint obliquely at what might be going on inside the characters' heads . their brief romance never gels . mendelsohn does a superlative job of setting up the scenes . the birds chirp , the clouds float by and the characters pose dramatically . but , when he calls " action " and the tableau starts to talk , it never goes much of anywhere . the character of david would appear to be somewhat autobiographical . one " without a plot , " he explains , and one in which everyone " would just be . " she tries to be polite , but you can tell that she doesn't think the idea has much promise . actually , not much . it is not rated but would probably be pg-13 for mature themes and a little profanity . it would be acceptable for kids around 9 and up , but most kids will find little to interest them . 
so many characters , so little time . obviously incompatible characters form quickie relationships based mainly on coincidence and convenience . marey , as the anti-model , is the least likely character of all . neither will you . one character claims it is because of her sense of humor , but the script gives her little funny to do or say . drunken women pass out or throw up at the most inopportune moments . although the performances are pleasant enough , the problem with the film is that we've seen it all many times before . this year's love can best be thought of as a dumbed down four weddings and a funeral . this year's love runs 1 : 48 . it is not yet rated but will undoubtedly be an r for sex , drug usage and language . the film would be acceptable for older teenagers . 
( okay , i admit it , the year is still young . ) with a jingoistic plot that's borderline parody , the movie is likely to elicit unintentional laughter from its audiences . still , no matter how ridiculous stephen gaghan's script becomes , the director keeps the action fast-paced enough that it keeps you involved in the intrigue . among the movie's long laundry list of problems is the miscasting of some of the key leads . if you pay the big bucks for jones , don't rein him in with such a constraining part . but , the picture remains as riveting as it is infuriating . characters make stupid mistakes , usually for no discernable reasons . nevertheless , friedkin manages to make an interesting movie . it's a film that will engross you while you're there but will fall apart in your mind as you begin to think about it later . up until this point in the picture , the tension is palpable . the net result of this is that the other side stops firing , but it creates an international incident since almost a hundred people die . " i'm a good enough lawyer to know that you need a better lawyer than me , " col . hodges warns his old buddy , who dismisses the advice . like so many of the other characters in this hackneyed script , you've seen someone like sokal in a hundred other movies . there is a scene just after the verdict is rendered that will have everyone in the audience thinking , " no way ! " to be fair , though , the movie is almost as much fun as it is ludicrous . almost . it is rated r for war violence and language and would be acceptable for teenagers . 
director betty thomas ( private parts ) and writer susannah grant ( erin brockovich ) have more affinity for the comedic part of the story , but it is the tragic that is the most effective . the comedic , which only works in fits and spurts , serves more often as a detriment to the movie than an attribute . another problem with the picture is that we've seen it before and better . michael keaton in clean and sober was funnier and more chillingly convincing . and the frighteningly effective performance by meg ryan in when a man loves a woman put both movies shame . we get a brief glimpse at the movie's start of how much fun gwen has when wasted . this conflict between the sisters is the most promising and most underdeveloped part of the storyline . in an inspired bit of casting against type , steve buscemi plays gwen's counselor . his effect on her life appears as if it will be significant , but the movie only gives us a few cheap laughs before moving on . although interrupted periodically by genuine tragedy ( puking in the toilet from drug withdrawal , attempted suicides , ugly relapses , etc . ) , the movie spends most of its time and energy in search of laughs . most of the comedy troop seem lifted from some lame television sitcom . sometimes the movie successfully blends the comedic with the tragic . after choosing to show that time for gwen , the filmmakers made it seem way too easy for her . as simple as that . it is rated pg-13 for mature thematic elements involving substance abuse , language and some sensuality and would be acceptable for teenagers . 
their marriage is basically a good one , full of playfulness and love . meenah is seen urinating -- an activity that occurs with bizarre frequency in the film -- by a muslim cleric , and the cleric is shocked that the boy is not circumcised . this produces the show's only substantial laugh . this sets up the story's overly long and bittersweet concluding segment , in which the good-spirited picture turns mean and the father loses our respect but not his wife's . director damien o'donnell , working from a script by ayub khan-din , continually pulls his punches , never quite making either a truly funny film or a biting social satire . the result is a movie that's kind of cute and kind of poignant , which all adds up to being only kind of nice . it is rated r for violence , sexuality and language and would be acceptable for most teenagers . 
a 1940s-style melodrama but with color . the movie unfolds like a dream with model-quality characters slowly drifting through the sumptuous sets . as directed by philip haas and scripted and edited by his wife belinda , who worked together on angels and insects , the movie induces an almost trance-like state in the audience . containing a small drama wrapped in a light-weight romance , the story moves on gossamer wings , never boring and yet never quite compelling . a lovely , moving tableaux , it's almost sad the way the picture never quite obtains lift-off . the princess says that her husband is " ugly enough to frighten the horses , " but that's not a problem since he has given her wealth and freedom . the biggest problem with the screenplay is that it makes rowley into a lovable pussycat . scott thomas and penn do everything asked of them , but it just isn't quite enough to make this quaint little story into much of a movie . still , if you're in need of some tranquility and rest , you could do worse than park your weary bones in a theater that's playing up at the villa . and , if you do nod off every now and then , not to worry -- you won't miss anything important . you'll leave the theater feeling rested and peaceful , not something that can be said about the effect of most movies . it is rated pg-13 for some sexuality and violence and would be acceptable for those 11 and up . there is , however , little to hold the interest of most kids . 
a mixture of humor and pathos , the film has some memorable moments but overall comes across surprisingly flat . based on billie letts's book , the uneven script is by the writing team of lowell ganz and babaloo mandel , who have produced some wonderfully funny comedies ( city slickers ) as well as some gratingly awful ones ( father's day ) . if the story sounds funny , it is sometimes , but you're more likely to grin than laugh . much of the movie tests the film's pg-13 rating . maybe this doesn't make the film r by the mpaa rating standards , but it's a lot more shocking than many r films , which get the rating because some character says the f-word a couple of times . a sad story , where the heart is never quite finds its rhythm , which leaves its audience fidgeting in their seats not quite knowing whether to laugh or cry . the story does have a lot of potential . one suspects that with a script doctor and a seasoned director , the film could have soared . as released , it's a film with an almost equal balance of hits and misses , but with a precious performance by portman at its core . it is rated pg-13 for intense thematic material , language and sexual content and would be acceptable for those over 13 . 
dirty ballet dancing , released under the pseudonym of center stage , tries to make the hard and competitive world of ballet dancing as much fun as rock and roll . not since jennifer grey and patrick swayze cut a rug in the catskills has a movie so wanted to demonstrate the sensuous joy of moving one's body to a beat . although center stage doesn't really find its groove until the last act , its dance numbers are well worth the price of admission . just try to forgive the amount of celluloid director nicholas hytner ( the object of my affection and the crucible ) wastes on the story's hackneyed romances . screenwriter carol heikkinen subscribes to the " one of " theory of script design , so the dozens of dancers include : one gay , one bulimic , one not skinny , one loud mouth , one black male and one hispanic female . the rest are so interchangeable that you'll wish that they had numbers on them to make it easier to tell them apart . and since the writer doesn't want to make a choice , she tries to shoehorn in way too many stories , all at the expense of the dance sequences , which is the only reason to see the movie in the first place . one of the film's most instructive and fascinating segments has the ballet dancers using everything from fire to water in order to get their toe shoes into just the right shape . the dancers endure incredible pain for the slim chance that they'll hit the big time , and the chorus -- in which you can tell your friends that you're the third one from the left -- is the most that even the better students can realistically hope for . speaking almost in whispers , the instructors give their generally mild critiques . light-years away from the drill instructor style that one would expect , they are so quiet that it's a miracle that the dancers can hear them . but the story's limitations become mere quibbles when the dancing starts . the best of the dancers , ethan stiefel as cooper nielsen , amazes us with his high flying , twirling bravado . when he engages another in a dazzling dancing duel , there's never any question as to who will emerge as the winner . although not his equal in technical skill , amanda schull as jody sawyer , plays the dancer with the most heart . when they perform the long ending sequence together , the movie sizzles , and the choreography wows us with its inviting originality . see it first on the big screen , and later , when it goes to video , hit the fast-forward button every time the dancing stops . it is rated pg-13 for language and some sensuality and would be fine for kids around 11 or 12 and up . 
woody allen plays a vintage woody allen character resurrected from his films of old in small time crooks , a movie which he also wrote and directed . it is the starring role in the type of silly comedies that first made him famous . this one isn't in the same league as the classic woody comedies , which it mimics , but it is a pleasant little movie that's as easy to listen to as woody's signature jazz scoring . his script proves better than its delivery perhaps because the actors seem a bit tired , like vaudevillians who've done the same routine so often that they've lost their edge . " what would you say if i told you that you were married to a very brilliant man ? " " i'd say , i'd have to be a bigamist ! " neither of them excels in brains or class . and their outlandish outfits match the decor perfectly . " my idea of a good time is not opera and ruins , " says ray . " i get enough sleep at home . " he just wants people to laugh at his jokes . they just stare at him without laughing or even blinking an eye . eventually the movie ends as much because it just runs out of steam as because the plot has reached its predictable conclusion . although it has a few nice laughs , the movie never rises above forgettable fluff . if you want to see the real thing , rather than this pale imitation , just rent some of woody's early pictures and savor what he once was capable of creating . it is rated pg for mild language and innuendo and would be acceptable for kids around 8 and up . 
woody allen plays a vintage woody allen character resurrected from his films of old in small time crooks , a movie which he also wrote and directed . it is the starring role in the type of silly comedies that first made him famous . this one isn't in the same league as the classic woody comedies , which it mimics , but it is a pleasant little movie that's as easy to listen to as woody's signature jazz scoring . his script proves better than its delivery perhaps because the actors seem a bit tired , like vaudevillians who've done the same routine so often that they've lost their edge . " what would you say if i told you that you were married to a very brilliant man ? " " i'd say , i'd have to be a bigamist ! " neither of them excels in brains or class . and their outlandish outfits match the decor perfectly . " my idea of a good time is not opera and ruins , " says ray . " i get enough sleep at home . " he just wants people to laugh at his jokes . they just stare at him without laughing or even blinking an eye . eventually the movie ends as much because it just runs out of steam as because the plot has reached its predictable conclusion . although it has a few nice laughs , the movie never rises above forgettable fluff . if you want to see the real thing , rather than this pale imitation , just rent some of woody's early pictures and savor what he once was capable of creating . it is rated pg for mild language and innuendo and would be acceptable for kids around 8 and up . 
dirty ballet dancing , released under the pseudonym of center stage , tries to make the hard and competitive world of ballet dancing as much fun as rock and roll . not since jennifer grey and patrick swayze cut a rug in the catskills has a movie so wanted to demonstrate the sensuous joy of moving one's body to a beat . although center stage doesn't really find its groove until the last act , its dance numbers are well worth the price of admission . just try to forgive the amount of celluloid director nicholas hytner ( the object of my affection and the crucible ) wastes on the story's hackneyed romances . screenwriter carol heikkinen subscribes to the " one of " theory of script design , so the dozens of dancers include : one gay , one bulimic , one not skinny , one loud mouth , one black male and one hispanic female . the rest are so interchangeable that you'll wish that they had numbers on them to make it easier to tell them apart . and since the writer doesn't want to make a choice , she tries to shoehorn in way too many stories , all at the expense of the dance sequences , which is the only reason to see the movie in the first place . one of the film's most instructive and fascinating segments has the ballet dancers using everything from fire to water in order to get their toe shoes into just the right shape . the dancers endure incredible pain for the slim chance that they'll hit the big time , and the chorus -- in which you can tell your friends that you're the third one from the left -- is the most that even the better students can realistically hope for . speaking almost in whispers , the instructors give their generally mild critiques . light-years away from the drill instructor style that one would expect , they are so quiet that it's a miracle that the dancers can hear them . but the story's limitations become mere quibbles when the dancing starts . the best of the dancers , ethan stiefel as cooper nielsen , amazes us with his high flying , twirling bravado . when he engages another in a dazzling dancing duel , there's never any question as to who will emerge as the winner . although not his equal in technical skill , amanda schull as jody sawyer , plays the dancer with the most heart . when they perform the long ending sequence together , the movie sizzles , and the choreography wows us with its inviting originality . see it first on the big screen , and later , when it goes to video , hit the fast-forward button every time the dancing stops . it is rated pg-13 for language and some sensuality and would be fine for kids around 11 or 12 and up . 
human traffic , written and directed by justin kerrigan , literally bursts with raw energy . set in the club scene in cardiff , wales , the movie is filled with hypnotically pulsating music that'll have you wanting to dance in the aisles . a funny and imaginative film , it is best thought of as a more good-spirited version of trainspotting . the humor , as it was in that hugely popular film , is drug-based . many viewers will have trouble enjoying the humor since they will not be able to get beyond the film's clearly pro-drug message . the language is true to the subjects , a bunch of kids just turned 20 , which means that a sentence without the f-word is like a day without sunshine . americans and those much older than the cast may have some trouble identifying with the kids and the setting . but the director somehow makes the film more universal than it might seem . the message of sex , drugs , and rock and roll , after all , will certainly remind you of the 60s . ( could too many drugs be a cause ? the story , not surprisingly , doesn't explore this angle . ) in the story's funniest sequence , he leads a sing-along to his own anthem . set to the tune of the british national anthem , the characters and the audience follow it to a bouncing ball on the words . it's high-spirited fun . the film's staging constantly surprises and delights . long portions of the story spend needless time listing the joys of a life of drugs . usually , but not always , these are quite humorous . by the end , the movie has transformed itself into a nice little romance between jip and lulu . the ending is as upbeat as a fred astaire movie . in fact , they looked like they were going to start dancing in the rain , but , alas , it was not to be . it is rated r for pervasive drug content , language and some strong sexuality and would be acceptable for college students and older . 
( to describe the exact nature of the event would diminish your enjoyment of the picture , so i will not elaborate further on it . but be careful because i suspect many other reviewers will feel it necessary to tell you more than you strictly need to know and will spoil the movie for you . ) the film is a drama that only begins to introduce substantial comedic elements once it has set a reverential tone . my audience was full of uneasy laughter as it seemed that many viewers didn't quite know what behavior was expected of them -- rather like not being sure when it is acceptable to laugh in church . guilfoyle and a host of other known supporting actors worked for scale on the production according to the director , who was at our screening . the problem with the movie is that , although it isn't a one-joke movie , it is essentially a one-idea one . as a short film , it would have made an intriguing half-hour story . i wished the film had been able to make me care more about the conflict , but it left me finding it all to be little more than a cute stunt . i will give them this . within the confines of the thin storyline , the actors did their best . but sometimes even your best isn't quite enough to save the day . it is not yet rated but would probably be pg-13 for brief nudity . the film would probably not interest those under 13 . 
pity the poor toons stuck with such two-dimensional , ( so-called ) live-action figures in des mcanuff's the adventures of rocky and bullwinkle . the toons , namely the ever lovable rocky and bullwinkle of 1960's television cartoon fame , make the most of their lines , but it isn't enough to save the picture from such wooden performances by the human actors . the worst of the lot are jason alexander and rene russo as live-action versions of cartoon villains boris and natasha . ( why rocky and bullwinkle are animated but their nemeses aren't makes little sense , of course , even if the movie provides a plot contrivance to explain it . ) alexander and russo are as wooden and awkward as al gore and calvin coolidge would be as a comedy duo attempting a slapstick routine on vaudeville . alexander and russo are rarely funny and frequently embarrassing . and since he produced the film one can only assume that he likes the way it was developed . the movie has lots of jokes , many of which are aimed at hollywood insiders and others which go by so fast that the vast majority of the audience will miss them entirely . ask your kids about the definition of " residuals " and " green lighting . " the names are fun . get it ? care and sympathy . don't worry if you didn't . my family didn't either until i explained it to them in the car on the way home . most of the movie is like that -- lots of missed opportunities . for every joke that works , there are dozens of others that miss their marks . bullwinkle remarks that even with rbtv , television is just as good as ever , something that struck a chord with me after watching a lot of television recently when i was laid up with a virus . most of the film's most effective humorous moments are provided by the numskull moose . the humans do get one truly funny bit of dialog . after one of his many failed attempts at humor , fearless leader adds , parenthetically , " that was just a little joke . " that , however , is the problem with the entire film . it is just a little joke . that they could make rocky and bullwinkle into a mixed animated and live-action film is obvious . the question that remains is " why ? " it is rated pg for brief mild language and would be acceptable for all ages . my son jeffrey , age 11 , gave the movie * * 1/2 . he liked the story and the cartoon figures but thought the action was frequently too stupid . he made the astute observation that the film's few profanities weren't needed , and he wasn't sure why they even bothered including them . the answer , of course , is that most studios have historically believed that a g rating is a kiss of death if they are shooting for a wide audience . hopefully the enormously successful chicken run , rated g , will disabuse them of that notion forever . 
hollywood's bad boys are back . the biggest surprise in me , myself & irene is that watching the movie is about as much fun as attending a fireworks display on a rainy fourth of july . most of the jokes fizzle like soggy rockets , but a few do burst in a marvelous display of outrageous humor . the problem with the jokes isn't that they are too offensive but rather that they simply aren't funny . the farrelly brothers certainly acknowledge no bounds . our admittedly sparse audience found little in the picture worth laughing at . indeed the jokes that do work are more cute than outright funny . whereas in there's something about mary i thought i was going to bust a gut , this time i don't recall ever laughing loudly . this leads to some of the film's best humor . hank ends up with an unusual milk mustache in one clever scene . another funny episode concerns his inaccuracy in his morning urination . although i didn't find it funny , his fight with himself is certainly a tour de force of his physical skills . " if you don't put your head to the ground , you'll never hear the buffaloes coming . " the farrelly brothers should have put their ears to the test screening walls more . if they had , they might have heard that the laughs weren't coming as they should on me , myself & irene . me , myself & irene runs 1 : 56 . it is rated r for sexual content , crude humor , strong language and some violence and would be acceptable for older teenagers . 
keenen ivory wayans's scary movie is a sweet little farce in the spirit of the old airplane movies . every sentence has a different joke with each being sillier than the last . although called scary movie , the film spoofs everything from horror movies ( i know what you did last summer ) to teen sex comedies ( american pie ) to action flicks ( the matrix ) . and if the humor eventually starts getting a little repetitive and tiresome , you can't fault the large writing committee of phil beauman , jason friedberg , buddy johnson , aaron seltzer , marlon wayans and shawn wayans for not trying hard , as they throw everything they can think of at us in the hopes that we'll find something to laugh at . without a pretentious bone in its body , the movie is 100% spoof . one of its favorite subjects of ridicule is the movie itself . we then cut to the film's director , camera operator and script supervisor . in the opening episode , a blonde bimbo is being chased by the story's villain , a masked guy with a hook -- quick , name that movie . the mask , cleverly , has different expressions , depending on the killer's mood . subtlety is not the movie's strong suit . imagine the shame of that poor animal in the picture with lipstick on his face . the story's most enjoyable sequence comes in the retribution that a movie audience inflicts on a talkative viewer . the audience eventually has enough of the inconsiderate woman and engages in a slash-a-thon . maybe in the future theaters could run this sequence when it is time for their " silence is golden " message . there is nothing worse than asking people to be quiet only to have them look at you like you are an idiot for asking and then go on talking anyway . scary movie runs 1 : 28 . it is rated r for strong , crude sexual humor , language , drug use and violence and would be acceptable for most teenagers . 
and if the magic from the enchanting television series isn't totally absent in britt allcroft's movie version , thomas and the magic railroad , it is too frequently awol . in this movie version , the well-known actors in it try hard but just muck up the story . baldwin is way too silly , peter fonda , as the widower grandpa , is too morose and the ever sweet mara wilson , as his granddaughter lily , is underutilized . if you're not familiar with the series , the model trains have faces on them and speak . the series has simple 5-minute thomas episodes , accompanied by the series' energetic little theme music . the problem with the movie version , besides those pesky humans in it , is that the story doesn't go anywhere for quite a while , much like a short story that is stretched beyond its limits . " what have you brought me here for ? " lily asks at one point . the audience may be asking the same question . although it is a treat to see little thomas on the big screen , the studio should have waited until they had a script with over an hour's worth of material in it . it is rated g and would be fine for all ages . 
writer/director amy heckerling , whose last film was 1995's delightful clueless , is back this time with loser , which is two movies at war with each other . one is a lame teen comedy that you've seen a hundred times before , but the other is a cute romantic comedy about a love triangle . they get roughly equal screen time , which makes viewing loser alternately frustrating and enjoyable . actually , of course , he is the nicest person in the movie . there is little fresh material in any of these episodes , and the less said about them , the better . thankfully , there is another part to the film . suvari , who was so alluring but catty in american beauty , is wonderfully likeable this time , even if her character seems to be going for the wrong guy . as a sarcastic bastard , professor alcott , greg kinnear ( oscar nominee for as good as it gets ) gives the show its bite . there aren't many surprises in this part of the story , but at least it has characters worth caring about or , in the case of the professor , sneering at . now if we could just have seen an edited version with the canonical teen comedy parts deleted -- that would be a movie worth recommending . it is rated pg-13 for sexuality , language , drug and alcohol abuse and mature themes and would be acceptable for most teenagers . 
so you're looking for an erotic knife-throwing movie ? i thought so . if so , then patrice leconte's the girl on the bridge ( la fille sur le pont ) is just the picture for you . chief among its delights are serge frydman's sharp and witty script and the sexually charged performance by vanessa paradis as the film's eponymous lead , adele . with pixyish good looks and large gaps between her teeth , paradis appears less like a movie star than every man's wish for his girl next door . shot in an oversaturated black and white that manages to obscure the subtitles of some of the best sections of dialog , the movie is a fairy tale for adults . watching nothing but a large talking head for the first 10 minutes of a story will try most viewers' patience . and being on the verge of suicide is certainly proof of a lack of belief in the future . " see less . what she does see is men , all except gabor that is . " i always want to try them on . " the movie is never better than when she's strapped to the board , withering in ecstasy and moaning with every knife strike . as magical , exotic and erotic as these scenes are , they are too few and far between . the movie begins to end fairly predictably and then has the bad sense of timing not to stop but to keep going for yet another , equally predictable ending . the girl on the bridge , which is already a reasonably short film , would be improved dramatically by being much shorter still . it is in french with english subtitles . it is rated r for some sexuality and would be acceptable for most teenagers . 
in takao okawara's godzilla 2000 , godzilla may have met his match in something that looks like a flying piece of fossilized dino dung in the shape of the millennium falcon . but since this is the 23rd japanese film about godzilla , the smart money is on godzilla to win again . yes sirree , after being bored with roland emmerich's godzilla , prepared with zillions of dollars' worth of computer generated images , we are back to basics with this japanese version of a guy in a rubber suit . the english dubbing is so unsynchronized that it appears that they intended it to mismatch as another way to generate laughs . the biggest problem with godzilla 2000 is that it is just not cheesy enough . and we waste a lot of time waiting for godzilla to get back on stage . although the humans in the story mainly hang around gawking or shooting at the monster , sometimes their hokey dialog does add some zest to the story's campy ambiance . " are you sure you've still got film in the camera ? " " oh , bite me ! " the problem with godzilla 2000 is that , like wasabi , a little goes a long way . thirty minutes would have been plenty for me . it is rated pg for monster violence and mild language and would be fine for most kids . children under 5 might be frightened by the silly looking monsters , but none of the kids in our audience appeared to be the least bit upset . my son jeffrey and his friend nickolas , both 11 , gave the movie * * * . they thought it was funny , and both liked the space ship best . they did wish that some of godzilla's old rivals would have made an appearance . 
" you said the good times were going to last forever , " bats complains . moss , in an underwritten role , turns in one of the film's best performances . suffice it to say that you don't want to mess with her feet . this geriatric group and their colorful fellow travelers come up with several nice laughs and funny scenes , but too often the jokes themselves are nearly dead . writer barry fanaro ( kingpin ) just doesn't come up with quite enough good stuff for me to be able to recommend the picture . older audiences , however , will likely be as pleased with it as were my parents . it is rated pg-13 for sexual content , violence and language and would be acceptable for kids around 11 and up . my son jeffrey , age 11 , said that the movie was pretty good and gave it * * 1/2 . he complained , correctly , that the film's trailers give away the best lines . 
stephen daldry's billy elliot , originally titled dancer , can be thought of as an english working-class version of flashdance but without any of the latter's glitz and production numbers . and , of course , its surroundings will remind viewers of the setting for the full monty . the problem with the movie's choreography is that billy , as he hams it up dancing and jumping around , is so awkward that it's hard for us to recognize the abilities that his teacher sees . moreover , his prancing around , which makes up large portions of the story , isn't that compelling . it's rather like watching your neighbor's kids hamming it up in the living room . most of the picture has the boy leaping about joyously but stiffly . these are heartfelt moments but not particularly convincing ones . set in a dirt-poor area of county durham in northern england in 1984 , the accents are so thick that you could cut them with a knife and so unintelligible at times that you'll wish that the picture had subtitles . the authentic dialog features the f-word in just about every sentence . it's a depressing tale with the inevitable light at the end of the tunnel , which is another of the film's problems . no matter how depressingly bleak the situation , the story follows too predictable an arc . the widower father is a completely angry caricature until , late in the picture , he makes the miraculous conversion that you can see coming a mile away . the supporting characters are little more than stick figures , which leaves the boy alone to carry the movie . the young actor does his best , and , whereas we certainly root for his character , the movie is just too formulaic to be able to recommend it . it is rated r for language and would be acceptable for teenagers . my son jeffrey , age 11 , didn't like much about the movie and gave it * 1/2 . he found the dialog hard to follow and felt the story got strained at several points . 
locally , the ballad of ramblin' jack has been attracting some of the biggest audiences that i've ever seen for a documentary . ( yes , i'm excluding the blair witch project , which isn't a documentary no matter what its fans want to believe . ) why this documentary is so popular , while many much better ones haven't been as well attended , is a bit of a mystery . but as one whose favorite film genre is documentaries , i'm pleased . personally , i found jack's singing abilities to be -- well -- passable . the ballad of ramblin' jack feels less like a motion picture than the elliott's home movies as narrated by the daughter . i can recall few documentaries in which the director talked so much . if her insights were more significant , her domination of her movie would have been easier to overlook . good documentaries can transcend their subject material to make the seemingly uninteresting fascinating . errol morris's mesmerizing mr . death about an electric chair designer was the best recent example of this . aiyana elliott is an effective collector of material and a good music historian , but her skills as a filmmaker aren't what they should be . this music documentary must then rise or fall solely on its music footage . some of it is quite good , but the director keeps cutting away . which leads me to a conclusion similar to my advice about bittersweet motel , a much inferior music documentary about the rock band phish . the ballad of ramblin' jack is for folk fans only . it is not rated but would be a g since it contains nothing to offend anyone of any age . 
with the enormous popularity of reality-based television shows and of teenage sex comedies , jean pierre marois's american virgin would seem to have arrived at a perfect moment in time for its plot , a spoof of the live deflowering of a just turned 18-year-old virgin on a paid cable program . do you think that the renaming of the video , about to be released to your video stores , to so mimic suvari's more famous two roles might been have more than a coincidence ? suvari mixes virginal innocence with resolute toughness . opening with a starlet in a bikini who appears to be in the throws of sexual passion , the camera cuts back so that we can see the fakery involved . but wait ; there's more ! the plot has intentionally convoluted relationships among the characters . the film is a hard-driving parody . it is an intentionally over-the-top film that skewers every subject that it brings up . nothing is sacrosanct , but the " adult film industry " bears the brunt of the assault . " if porn's good enough for you , it's good enough for me , " katrina tells her dad when he orders her not to go through with it . " listen , if this isn't art , i don't know what is , " joey yells to his field of fornicators , ready to do the pregame show before the big deflowerment . actually , given its premise , the movie is remarkably tame with little sex or nudity . mainly the actors just talk about sex , and , even then , the language is milder than you would expect . american pie , for example , is much raunchier than american virgin . american virgin is the sort of film that most viewers will either find ridiculously awful or outrageously funny . my reaction proved , however , to be neither of these extremes . although i admired the director's audacious approach and was charmed by suvari's performance in a badly underwritten role , i found that too many of the jokes came across flat . the result is a picture that's better than might be expected but not quite good enough to recommend . it is rated r for sexual content , nudity and language and would be acceptable for most teenagers . 
with the enormous popularity of reality-based television shows and of teenage sex comedies , jean pierre marois's american virgin would seem to have arrived at a perfect moment in time for its plot , a spoof of the live deflowering of a just turned 18-year-old virgin on a paid cable program . do you think that the renaming of the video , about to be released to your video stores , to so mimic suvari's more famous two roles might been have more than a coincidence ? suvari mixes virginal innocence with resolute toughness . opening with a starlet in a bikini who appears to be in the throws of sexual passion , the camera cuts back so that we can see the fakery involved . but wait ; there's more ! the plot has intentionally convoluted relationships among the characters . the film is a hard-driving parody . it is an intentionally over-the-top film that skewers every subject that it brings up . nothing is sacrosanct , but the " adult film industry " bears the brunt of the assault . " if porn's good enough for you , it's good enough for me , " katrina tells her dad when he orders her not to go through with it . " listen , if this isn't art , i don't know what is , " joey yells to his field of fornicators , ready to do the pregame show before the big deflowerment . actually , given its premise , the movie is remarkably tame with little sex or nudity . mainly the actors just talk about sex , and , even then , the language is milder than you would expect . american pie , for example , is much raunchier than american virgin . american virgin is the sort of film that most viewers will either find ridiculously awful or outrageously funny . my reaction proved , however , to be neither of these extremes . although i admired the director's audacious approach and was charmed by suvari's performance in a badly underwritten role , i found that too many of the jokes came across flat . the result is a picture that's better than might be expected but not quite good enough to recommend . it is rated r for sexual content , nudity and language and would be acceptable for most teenagers . 
locally , the ballad of ramblin' jack has been attracting some of the biggest audiences that i've ever seen for a documentary . ( yes , i'm excluding the blair witch project , which isn't a documentary no matter what its fans want to believe . ) why this documentary is so popular , while many much better ones haven't been as well attended , is a bit of a mystery . but as one whose favorite film genre is documentaries , i'm pleased . personally , i found jack's singing abilities to be -- well -- passable . the ballad of ramblin' jack feels less like a motion picture than the elliott's home movies as narrated by the daughter . i can recall few documentaries in which the director talked so much . if her insights were more significant , her domination of her movie would have been easier to overlook . good documentaries can transcend their subject material to make the seemingly uninteresting fascinating . errol morris's mesmerizing mr . death about an electric chair designer was the best recent example of this . aiyana elliott is an effective collector of material and a good music historian , but her skills as a filmmaker aren't what they should be . this music documentary must then rise or fall solely on its music footage . some of it is quite good , but the director keeps cutting away . which leads me to a conclusion similar to my advice about bittersweet motel , a much inferior music documentary about the rock band phish . the ballad of ramblin' jack is for folk fans only . it is not rated but would be a g since it contains nothing to offend anyone of any age . 
" you take a step and are blown to pieces . " this philosophical film by writer/director valerie breiman would have been more aptly titled reflections on relationships , but , of course , the current title is a more marketable one . love and sex there is , but the characters spend more time discussing the twin subjects than engaging in them . and when it comes to sex , janssen would appear to have a no-nudity clause in her contract , since she stays partially clothed in situations which would much more naturally be engaged in without underwear . although most of the staging never quite rings true , the movie does commendably place both of the leads in real jobs that they actually go to . most cinematic characters appear to live off of some off-screen sugar daddy , permitting them to live without the toils of work . kate's only honest piece of writing -- about oral sex as a cure for depression -- is rejected by the magazine's eponymous owner , played without emotion by ann magnuson . " hey , i believe in relationships . they have the sort of strange chemistry whereby they both think that it's funny that he calls her a whore . they also enjoy sharing bedtime flatulence . like the rest of the reflective characters , eric is full of dating suggestions . as witty as the script is , the direction is way off the mark . the cast almost uniformly suffers from a bad of case of low energy . scenes seem designed more for cuteness than believability . and never is the chemistry between adam and kate genuine , which is the kiss of death for a romantic comedy . although the movie has some wonderfully acerbic moments and some insightful parts , it is basically forgettable fluff . you'll kind of enjoy it while you're there , but after you leave you'll wonder why you ever bothered . it is rated r for language and sexual situations and would be acceptable for most teenagers . 
spain's prolific and visually audacious writer/director carlos saura ( tango ) is back this time with a film , goya in bordeaux , about the famous painter francisco de goya , played by the even more prolific spanish actor francisco rabal ( tie me up ! tie me down ! ) . the picture won several appropriately named " goyas , " the spanish equivalent of the oscars , for best actor , cinematography , set design and make-up . shot entirely on a sound stage , the surreal film opens with the image of a gutted beef carcass , being hauled up to dry . as the camera pulls in tight on the bloody flesh , the editor dissolves the frame into one of goya's face . listening to these ramblings of an old man is rather like trying to assemble a puzzle in which you've lost most of the pieces . much more than that isn't clear . to evaluate goya in bordeaux on the storyline and dialog , however , misses the point of the film . saura is a visual stylist and his works have to be evaluated on that level . think of this as a cinematic opera , and you'll get the idea . for this reason , whenever roque ba ? os's wonderful period music plays and the actors shut up , the movie soars . the corollary to this , however , is that when the film , as it frequently does , sticks to traditional dialog sans music , it quickly grinds to a halt . but pump up the sound , turn on the fog machine and let those actors stroll by in lavish costumes , powdery wigs and make-up , and you have grand opera for just the price of a movie ticket . the film is in spanish with english subtitles . it is rated r for some sexuality and violent imagery and would be acceptable for older teenagers . 
in nicole garcia's place vend ? me , catherine deneuve delivers an exquisitely underplayed and delicately nuanced performance as the alcoholic marianne . the problem in a nutshell is that her acting is the only reason to see the movie . much is made of marianne's illness . she still drinks all of the time , but , since she doesn't guzzle it down , she no longer shows signs of drunkenness . laurent dailland's cinematography is heavy on the dark atmospherics with a muted color palette that accentuates the drab grays . he likes nothing better than to give us such hazy , underlit scenes that you wonder if there is a brownout . and the director sets such a languid pace that if a character fired a gun , the bullet would take a full two minutes to strike its victim . the biggest cheat is that place vend ? me is the type of story in which you wait in vain for something to finally happen . watching deneuve at work is a treat , but it isn't enough . place vend ? me runs 1 : 57 . the film is in french with english subtitles . it is not rated but would probably be an r for brief violence and language and would be acceptable for teenagers . 
" fame , fortune and my own private parking place -- i had it all , " he tells us in voice-over . working again with ephron , as he did in the sappy michael , john travolta appears this time as russ , a lovable doofus without any hint of wings . travolta's over-the-top character is as likeable as he is stupid . in fact , the warm weather seems to have fried everyone's brains . a few bright characters would have made for a nice contrast . great at playing bright but explosively dangerous characters , roth is given almost nothing to do other than chop vegetables in the kitchen of a sleazy nightclub . wearing tight-fitting , sequined dresses , slit way up the side , crystal is syrupy sweet on camera and foul-mouthed tough off camera . in short , kudrow plays kudrow but as a slightly darker version of her usual ditzy blonde character . the comedic jousting between travolta and kudrow make for some of the movie's most entertaining moments . precisely how the money is to be divided up becomes the picture's longest running joke . the problem with lucky numbers is that the audience's lucky numbers don't come up nearly often as they should . many scenes are inspired , but most just drag on without any comedic payoff . there are so many minor characters and subplots that you want to take a pair of scissors to the print and cut some of the them out . an overgrown bush of a picture , it is in bad need of pruning to let the best flowers have the light to bloom . the best moments are silly fun , but there just aren't enough of them . it is rated r for language , sexuality , some drug use and brief violence and would be acceptable for most teenagers . 
set in savannah in 1928 , the legend of bagger vance is a disappointing but gorgeous film that features lavish period sets and appears to have been shot only in the glow of the rising or setting sun . its sweeping music tries to suggest epic proportions for a story that's badly lacking gravitas . incidents unfold unhurriedly . the story moves along without much drive . and redford interrupts an already slow game to admire the local flora . just what golf needs , someone to slow it down . the problem with the production starts with the casting . the over-narrated film features jack lemmon's flat and uninspiring voice-overs . theron , who has been quite good in films such as the devil's advocate , is way over her head and completely unconvincing as a manipulative southern belle . the minor actors playing savannah's citizens ham it up with inflated southern accents and exaggerated gestures . j . michael moncrief , as hardy greaves , the story's ever-present kid , quickly goes from cute to annoyingly saccharine . matt damon proves to be an acceptable but not an exciting choice as junuh , giving us little reason to root for him . the only actor who brings much to his part is will smith , whose performance provides the only credible argument to see the movie . at its best , the movie can be funny and sweet . " the meaning of it all is : there is no meaning , " hagen tells junuh about golf , life or both . that about sums up the movie . it's gorgeous and then it's over . even if redford queues the heavenly choirs to sing when a ball approaches the green , he isn't able to escape the fact that what he has made is just a genre picture and nothing more . he wants to imbue much meaning and spirituality to its message but never succeeds , no matter how earnestly he tries . it is rated pg-13 for some sexual content and would be fine for kids around 8 and up . my son jeffrey , age 11 , called the film , " nice . " he gave it * * 1/2 and said that he it too slow but had a good plot . he mentioned that he liked the way that the narrator wasn't the main character . 
like visual crib notes for reviewers , the opening to gurinder chadha's what's cooking ? sweetly and concisely summarizes the movie's message . as the national anthem plays in the background , a turkey slowly comes into focus . set at the quintessential american holiday , thanksgiving , the movie celebrates our country's melting pot tradition . the warm-hearted but completely forgettable what's cooking ? would have been more appropriately released as a television movie for the holiday season . each actor gets a brief time on stage , but none gets a well-developed character . loud , warm-hearted music fills in the gaps left by the erratic story . as in like water for chocolate and other motion pictures that celebrate the joy of cooking , what's cooking ? features significant amounts of food photography . jong lin's lensing of the food is quite respectable and colorful but doesn't have the mouth-watering appeal of most food films . still , this is certainly the longest product placement ever for america's turkey breeders . this is a mood piece that intends mainly to evoke a warm nostalgic feeling in the viewers , which it does quite successfully . even if what's cooking ? is little more than an ephemeral treat , it is a relatively flawless one . save one shamelessly manipulative scene which the studio has specifically asked critics not to reveal , there isn't anything wrong with it . what's cooking ? is a movie that conjures up respectful , but not enthusiastic adjectives . it's a nice , pleasant but inconsequential picture . what's cooking ? it is rated pg-13 for some sexuality , brief language and a perilous situation and would be acceptable for kids around 10 or 11 and up . 
written and directed by don roos , bounce has none of the sharply written edginess of his last film , the opposite of sex . with a plot and tone vaguely reminiscent of random hearts , starring harrison ford and kristin scott thomas , bounce concerns two people affected by the aftermath of an airline disaster . ironically , buddy is an ad executive working on the infinity airlines account . an unhappy type , abby says things like , " if you grade on a curve , i'm happy , " talking as much to herself as to others . buddy and abby's awkward friendship and eventual love affair are pleasant enough but never particularly engaging . the actors would have served the audience better if they had heeded that advice . even if it isn't quite worth recommending , the film does have its moments , especially its funnier ones . but , when the movie tries to be a tear-jerker , it leaves you dry-eyed and feeling manipulated . it is rated pg-13 for some language and sensuality and would be acceptable for kids around 11 and up . 
brrrrrr . better bring along your heavy coat to the claim since it's palpably cold . set in the sierra nevada mountains in the harsh winter of 1867 , the movie features knee-deep snow and blowing wind that sounds like a hungry coyote howling at the moon . the rustic town , as photographed in the warm , dark glow of kerosene lamps by alwin h . kuchler , feels completely authentic . only the price of rented passion seems a bit out of line . the base price isn't revealed , but the prostitutes charge $30 extra if the guys want to stay a little longer than normal . you do the math . that's a tidy sum . it being winterbottom's second hardy adaptation , i had really been looking forward to the claim . his first , jude , a fairly literal adaptation of hardy's " jude the obscure , " was on my best of the year list back in 1996 . although the claim's dramatic visuals surpass jude , in no other way is it comparable . jude had a rich , character-driven screenplay , but frank cottrell boyce's script for the claim leaves the images alone to tell the story . none of the characters are properly developed . the leads are merely sketched , and the supporting cast is almost completely ignored . an unrecognizable nastassja kinski , as daniel's sick wife is the most wasted of all . kinski is given little more to do than cough . although this event should be the tearful culmination of the tragedy , it leaves you completely dry eyed since there isn't a single character worth caring about in the claim . the claim is an impressive exercise in visual style and atmospherics . it is a shame that it isn't more than that . it is rated r for sexuality and for some language and violence . it would be acceptable for older teenagers . 
if you're a filmmaker looking for a star for your next action picture , there isn't any better choice today than russell crowe ( gladiator ) , the star of taylor hackford's proof of life . he exudes a controlled intensity that always seems just below the boiling point . bringing intelligence and quiet charisma to his parts , he adds something special that isn't flashy but isn't subtle either . in the movie , in which there is supposed to be romantic sparks , the chemistry between crowe and ryan is as dead as a campfire extinguished a week ago . to courage under fire , never finds the right tone this time . employing a very limited emotional range , she spends much of the movie glassy-eyed , holding , but not smoking , a lit cigarette , as if it were some sort of fashion statement . we learn that paying what the rebels ask is like trying to eradicate the gophers in your backyard by sticking a hose in one of their holes and trying to drown them . so long as you get the right proof of life -- a photo of the victim holding a recent newspaper being popular -- and find just the right price point , you can get your client freed in a matter of mere months . unless you're a car dealer by trade , you're likely to find that this part becomes tedious . the first two-thirds of the film stays in low gear as the negotiations drone on . eventually , the movie is transformed into quite a credible and satisfying action picture , in which terry's old sidekick , dino ( david caruso ) , joins him in the fun . tony gilroy's script is like that . although it throws out some interesting ideas , it has trouble fashioning them into a compelling thriller . but , all is not lost . the movie does prominently feature russell crowe . it is rated r for violence , language and some drug material and would be acceptable for teenagers . 
ironically , first-time screenwriter mike rich has fashioned a remarkably thin story about a first-time writer . fully three quarters of the movie elapses before it finally gets to the big " plagiarism " incident , which like every twist is telegraphed way in advance . although rich pads the story with many inconsequential incidents , he permits us just one glimpse at jamal's writings . we get no sense of his literary abilities . we are allowed , mainly in practice sessions , to view some of his basketball prowess , but that isn't important since the point of the film , after all , is his writing . brown and connery deliver nice , albeit not exceptional , performances . the easy going chemistry between them has remarkably few rough edges and is a pleasure to watch . and they agree that starting a sentence with a conjunction is a good writing choice even if it does violate some old-fashioned rules . but one shouldn't do it too often . in fact -- you've got to love these coincidences -- it was none other than william himself who put the quietus on the good professor's last book attempt by calling his publishers and advising them not to publish it . let me give you a flavor of the level of predictability in the script . who would you guess will prevail ? other than smile and talk about her rich father -- he fixed it so the school would go coed just so she could join -- paquin doesn't have anything to do . the film works best as a light comedy , and there are many satisfying , albeit small , laughs . generally , the movie aspires to be something more , but its retreaded dialog keeps getting in the way . sometimes it is the small things that trouble you about a production . sure . don't leave before the epilogue . if you like the movie , this epilogue could be the best part . the film , however , left me relatively unmoved . still , it is always good to see connery , and newcomer brown shows a lot of promise . it is rated pg-13 for brief strong language and some sexual references and would be acceptable for kids around 12 and up . 
snatch is the second feature film by writer and director guy ritchie , who blasted onto the film scene a couple of years ago with his audacious lock , stock and two smoking barrels . his latest movie is a hyper-violent , screwball comedy that doesn't pull any punches . and it's fun for a time until the repetition factor sets in . coming from the more-is-always-better school of filmmaking , ritchie tries to fill every fast-paced scene with maximum violence and mayhem . snatch , which has more characters and overlapping stories that you can count , never has a slow moment . in the predictable script , you can probably guess exactly how he will be relieved of the stone . many of the characters , like boris , can take more bullets than the agents in the matrix and still keep on coming . individual incidents are cute although few rise to the level of laugh-out-loud funny . animal rights people may find many of the fighting animal scenes more than they can stomach even if the movie undoubtedly promises that no animals were harmed , etc . as the ending credits roll , the song it plays has the constant refrain , " ha , ha , ha , ha . the movie is like that -- way too repetitive . snatch runs 1 : 43 . it is rated r for strong violence , language and some nudity and would be acceptable for high school seniors and older . 
and the truth is that the x-files's actress gillian anderson is badly miscast as lily bart , the central character in terence davies's the house of mirth , based on edith wharton's novel of early 1900s manners . who these few people might be is unclear since anderson shows almost no variation in her acting , reading her lines with little emotion . the movie is sometimes fairly enjoyable in spite of the lead rather than because of her . the credit belongs mainly to the script , whose delicious thoughts are worth savoring ( " where does dignity end and rectitude begin . " " men have minds like moral flypaper . " ) . several members of the supporting cast also deserve credit . a boisterous aykroyd puts some drive into a movie that keeps slipping into neutral . rosedale views marriage like a stock investment , and he'd like to make a little ipo with lily . while hers is only a small part , linney proves how much stronger the film could have been had she had the part of lily . when bertha stings lily with , " a married man should not have the burden of being seen alone with a single woman , " one can just imagine how much more effective linney would have been as the star of the production . the sound , however , is jarringly dull . more music and a heightened use of background sounds would have given the film less of a flat feeling . and why go to the theater to watch mediocre masterpiece theater when you can see good masterpiece theater on television ? it is rated pg for thematic material . although there is nothing in it to offend anyone of any age , the picture offers little to interest kids under 13 . 
yi yi , by taiwanese writer and director edward yang , would be translated one one in english . the american distributors have chosen instead the less literal english title of a one and a two , probably because the movie is about the rhythms of life . although voted best picture of the year by one association of film critics , it is hardly that . while certainly not a bad picture , it is a long , meandering one that is rarely compelling . still , with its artistic filming -- most conversations are intriguingly shot from a medium or long distance -- it is easy to see how critics might fall in love with it . the relatively formless , slice-of-life plot follows a large number of characters . while the performances are all genuine , the script has trouble eliciting either tears or laughs from the audience . even though the story isn't all it could be , wei-han yang's cinematography is exemplary from start to finish . most fascinating are the scenes shot through the glass of moving cars . 8-year-old yang-yang ( jonathan chang ) is the film's most indelible character . least successful and more traditional are the canonically comical scenes like the one of kids dropping a water balloon on an unsuspecting passerby . although it has its moments , yi yi is the type of movie that , if rented on tape , would be one that you would likely turn off after half an hour out of sheer lack of interest . on the other hand , with an hour chopped off of its three bloated hours , who knows what might have been ? the potential is there . yi yi runs a very long 2 : 53 . the film is mainly in mandarin with english subtitles . it is not rated but would be an r for language and brief nudity and would be acceptable for teenagers . 
if you can't figure out whether jim is actually a murderer , consider your inability as prima facie evidence that you need a break , since you are clearly below your minimum movie quota . " why can't i find just one . just one ! " like much of the movie , it sounds funnier that it is . i mean i've got to run . " the script by ron burch and david kidd sporadically comes up with such cute dialog , but , too often , it falls back on the old clich ? s of everyone literally falling head over heels . okay , maybe the third . given that director mark s . waters's first and only other film is the wonderfully edgy , black comedy , the house of yes , also featuring prinze , one might reasonably assume that head over heels would take risks . instead , it plays it as safe as a tv movie remake of a doris day comedy . the movie never gets the proper comedic payoff from the models because it never ratchets up the sleaze factor enough . still , some easy jabs at their desire to destroy their bodies for the sake of their profession do come across as funny . one model , for example , is in the process of having her earlobes fixed so that they will be perfectly symmetric . the movie's fatal flaw is that theirs is a one-way romance . we never believe that the feeling is genuinely reciprocated , and their chemistry together has as many sparks as a california blackout . a romantic comedy requires not only laugher , but love . it is rated pg-13 for sexual content , crude humor and language and would be acceptable for kids around 11 or 12 and up . my son jeffrey , age 11 , gave the movie * * 1/2 . although he thought the movie was funny in parts , especially those involving the models , he thought the plot was flat and needed improvement . 
in down to earth , chris rock plays a struggling standup comic , lance barton , whose jokes -- " i know this gal so ugly she had to wear makeup on the radio " -- have been dying . for the record , the hereafter looks like a big blue nightclub . if this plot sounds familiar , it should . down to earth is a remake of the 1978 film heaven can wait , starring warren beatty . that film , confusingly , was itself a remake , not of the 1943 film heaven can wait , but of the 1941 picture here comes mr . now that we've gotten that straightened out , we can proceed . the audience sees lance , except for a few scenes when charles is rapping or joking with black humor , as blacks stare at him in disbelief and dismay . at those times , the audience sees this old white guy disconcertingly trying to act black . no one notices that charles's lingo suddenly sounds downscale . " i gotst to go . " it's a good natured story , and rock radiates a sweet likeableness throughout . but , the bottom line is that the movie is basically one long chris rock comedy routine . if you like his shtick , you'll probably like the movie . for my taste , some of his jokes are cute , but most don't quite click . not a bad movie . think of it as a near miss . it is rated pg-13 for language , sexual humor and some drug references and would be fine for kids around 9 and up . my son jeffrey , almost 12 , gave the movie * * 1/2 , saying that some of the jokes were funny but many weren't . he mentioned several structural problems he had with the script , especially the way the last act and the ending were handled . 
faster than someone can shout , " rewrite ! " she thinks a movie called something like to live would be more successful . we see his stories acted out , and it is increasingly obvious that they will all come together and the characters will not perish . after all , the title of the movie isn't to die ( for sure ) . there might be more , but the prime problem with to die ( or not ) is that , while the idea is cute , the writer has trouble finding interesting things to do with it , so the result isn't particularly memorable . still , to die ( or not ) is a pleasant picture . the first part is filmed in sleek black and white with disorienting camera angles and fast zooms . the second part switches to lush colors and more tranquil camera work . throughout , the movie is warmly scored with soothing classical , cello music . the uneven script tosses around some ideas about chance and god but doesn't develop them . the humor is similarly slapdash . to die ( or not ) leaves you thinking about the movie's premise but not the film itself . the film is in spanish with english subtitles . it is not rated but might be an r for brief nudity , sexuality , violence and language . it would be fine for teenagers . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
" your number is up . " as the story's villain , reedus delivers an incredibly bland performance , which effectively cancels out the positive effects of farina's work in the picture . >from there , preston's life sinks into the abyss . one thing is certain . this all makes for a thriller that stretches plausibility a bit too often . the impressive score by kurt kuenne ( scrapbook ) does a terrific job of setting the mood . he was at our screening and filled in some details about the production . the surprise was that their distributor , in a deal that baffles the filmmakers , will be retitling the movie to bad seed when it is released this summer directly to dvd and video . this is a movie without anyone that could be so called . we couldn't come up with any plausible candidates . it is rated r for violence and language and would be acceptable for most teenagers . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
after all , the movie isn't titled bricks in the box . confirming jerry's fears , doug comes back with some frightening demands . from there , it's one twist and turn after another . the performances by the three guys are quite good , but the story suffers from having been told so often . one key revelation is too easily guessed , and the movie has trouble with its last act . the final twist , however , is devilishly fun . it is not rated but would be an r for violence and language and would be acceptable for most teenagers . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
watching katrine wiedemann's bleak the lady of hamre ( fruen pa hamre ) is like taking some bitter medicine that you know is supposed to be good for you but whose taste can be hard to stomach . an earnest and well-acted movie , it is one that you want to like , no matter how disheartening it becomes . having sex with the pudgy gorm is like being pinned by a beefy wrestler so bente isn't missing much . it is a sad and depressing story whose saving grace is that it eventually puts us out of our misery . the film is in danish with english subtitles . it is not rated but would be an r for sex , nudity and violence and would be acceptable for high school seniors and older . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
in a major inspirational moment , james realizes that he could make a better movie than the one that they're watching . it is a transparent joke since bleep lee's production company is also called 40 acres , and bleep lee looks similar to spike lee . every time they use this wink at the audience , it's cute . ) filmed in grainy black and white , the picture has the look of a gritty 1950's drama set in one of the new york city boroughs . but citizen james never takes itself too seriously . many of the jokes don't click but those do make for an entertaining time . it's a promising first effort for doug as a filmmaker . it is not rated but would be an r for language and would be acceptable for most teenagers . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
writer/director sarah thorp's see jane run is kinda cute . marvin and gina see robbery as a way to enhance their movie careers . director sarah thorp's only inabilities stem from inexperience . after this promising but uneven first film , expect to see her name on better films in the future . it is not rated but might be pg-13 for language and mature subject matter . it would be acceptable for kids around 12 and up . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
writer/director terence gross's hotel splendide is like a tim burton episode of " faulty towers . " the bad cuisine there is ipso facto good for you . with overcast skies and the look of a gothic horror picture , hotel splendide is literally a dark comedy . the film is more intriguing than funny , but it has an excellent cast , not the least of which is toni collette ( the sixth sense ) as kath , an ex-chef at the hotel , who is there for a return engagement . the director is , first and foremost , a visual stylist . the running joke of the film concerns the hotel's heating system . the director , who has a wicked sense of humor , milks the overflowing sewage joke for all it's worth . after our screening , he told me that the test audiences who saw the picture hated it . he intended it for an art house audience , but the distributors wanted to market it as a crossover film so they got the multiplex crowd to see it . guess what -- the test audiences wanted him to recut it into a different picture entirely . the result is a fascinating film that's almost funny . hotel splendide runs a bit long at 1 : 45 . it is not rated but would be an r for some sex , nudity and language . it would be acceptable for most teenagers . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
in tomcats , writer and first-time director gregory poirier , whose scripts have ranged from the superb ( rosewood ) to the pathetic ( gossip ) , sets a raunchy tone from the get-go , trying , as so many have , to turn out the next there's something about mary . in a long-running testicle scene , which will have the men in the audience squirming , he gets large laughs that do approximate those produced by the now classic zipper scene in mary . ah , if all of this hit-and-miss movie were just that crudely funny , tomcats could have some hit potential . of course , without name stars like diaz , dillon and stiller , a big success is hard to pull off . apparently the movie was wrapped pre-crash since the cash in the account soars to half-a-million dollars . a man with an ego and a libido the size of montana and a brain the size of a rabbit's , kyle gives bad taste a bad name . along the way , the jokes come fast and furious . most are as lame as the old out-of-control water hose gag . this over-the-top lactating scene will undoubtedly turn off as many viewers as it will amuse . although the uneven tomcats isn't quite worth recommending , it does produce some nice laughs . and somehow , the little romance between michael and natalie does have some surprising charm . oh well , at least the film's a lot better than last week's crude comedy , say it isn't so , although that isn't much of a compliment . tomcats runs 1 : 32 . it is rated r for strong sexual content including dialogue and for language . it would be acceptable for older teenagers . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
" there are mountains behind the mountains , " remarks one of the viewers of the first motion picture to be shown in peking . the images show a western world that is indeed far behind and beyond the chinese mountain ranges . barnum-type character , opens a " shadow magic " extravaganza to display his combination of home movies and english travelogue . set amidst the turmoil of a changing era as china reluctantly welcomes the twentieth century , shadow magic , which was " inspired by a true story , " is a good-spirited movie written and directed by ann hu . a stunningly gorgeous costume drama , the movie suffers from its nearly two hour length and its threadbare scripting . the lushness of nancy schreiber's cinematography almost makes up for the thinness of the characterizations . liu , the central character , has a large , silly grin plastered on his face through most of the movie . raymond isn't much better . what really works in the movie , other than the authentic and nostalgic sets , is the wonderment of seeing a new technology so entrance a populace . the movie effectively reminds us how revolutionary some of today's gadgets were just a century ago . the world changes more rapidly than we would ever believe . the film is in mandarin with english subtitles and in english . it is rated pg for brief mild language and would be acceptable for kids old enough to read subtitles . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
le printemps ) is like some super bowls -- the interruptions are by far and away the best parts . in the case of the super bowl , the interruptions come in the form of commercials , but in the female buddy comedy they call it spring , the narrative is broken by humorous musical interludes , usually sung in the two and three-part harmonies and rounds . these musical ditties have about as much in common with the storyline as a dot-com ad does with football , but they are so much fun that you won't care . the best of these musical numbers has three guys dressed like 18th century french dandies , complete with long cream-colored coats , shoes and lace . sharing little of the originality of the musical numbers , the comedy serves adequately to mark time until the charming songfest resumes . the film is in french with english subtitles . it is not rated but might be pg-13 for brief nudity and would be acceptable for kids around 12 and up . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
both are completely believable and deliver strong performances , but carrillo steals the movie in a long dramatic scene towards the end . although it is a powerful film at times , loach makes two strategic mistakes that significantly and needlessly detract from its message . brody , a tom green look-alike who darts around like harpo marx , gives the movie a comedic side that is jarringly out of place with the rest of the drama . the second mistake concerns the subtitles . since the characters would naturally speak a mixture of english and spanish , loach keeps switching the language that is being subtitled . in theory this may sound sensible , but in practice it is a disaster . if you try to read the subtitles and they turn out to be in a language you don't understand , then , by the time you stop reading and start listening , you've missed the first few words of the sentence and are frequently unable to parse what is being said . the reverse is true if you're listening carefully , only to realize that you should have been reading . since these switches may occur several times per minute , it is hard to keep track of the dialog . if loach felt that dual language subtitling were necessary , there are two ways that would have solved the problem . either have both languages subtitled all of the time -- films shown in multilingual countries like switzerland do this -- or use different colors with , say , white for english and yellow for spanish . bread and roses makes some powerful points for the union while reminding us of everyone's believe in self-reliance . were it not for the miscasting of the comical adrien brody in a serious part and for the distracting and constant switching of subtitles , i would have been able to recommend bread and roses . it is rated r for strong language and brief nudity and would be acceptable for teenagers . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
spring forward , a talkfest between two parks and recreation workers , has so much in common with my dinner with andre that it might better have been called my job with murph . the performances are all fine and heartfelt , but the story itself never provides much reason for us to care . nothing in the story , however , has much emotional impact . generally the two guys just work , never very hard , while gabbing about whatever comes to mind . he lectures murph , who laughs off most of paul's pop philosophies . murph muses that paul's recent hangover would seem rather incongruous with these beliefs . set in the small town of stacey , connecticut -- formed way back in 1708 the guys' ever-present uniforms remind us -- the pastoral setting is full of wide , green lawns and tall , stately trees . the lushness of the scenery almost makes up for the lack of a properly developed script . after trying several endings on us , the movie's penultimate one introduces a brand new character in an almost dramatic incident , which is little more than a shameless plot device . " everything goes by so much faster in the movies , " paul tells murph in a relative non sequitur . maybe in most movies . certainly not in this one . it is rated r for language and some drug content and would be acceptable for most teenagers . 
although well cast and acted , the movie doesn't amount to much . still , it is an enjoyable enough diversion . diaz , like the rest of the cast , is quite good , but , in diaz's case , she never makes a convincing revolutionary . in fact , the more militant she acts , the less believable she becomes . at first , faith's protests are like beautifully choreographed ballets . it is perhaps one of the most picturesque protests on record . the movie itself is like that . it just doesn't add up to anything . it is rated r for sexuality , language and drug content and would be acceptable for older teenagers . 
these simple episodes are all admirable but rarely engaging . and , although the movie comes in at a mere 78 minutes , 10 would have sufficed . after about 3 minutes , each of the stories has made its rather straightforward point quite gracefully . the next 20 minutes of each adds little other than needless reinforcement . the mullah , in the story's only memorable line , calls her bicycle , " the devil's mount . " toloui's acting is exquisite , showing her pain and determination with eye expressions alone . it's always hard understanding someone else's religion , but the images shown of islam in this picture give one a feeling of sad repression . and it is the images alone that stay with you after this film is over . the film is in farsi with english subtitles . it is not rated but would probably be a g since there isn't anything offensive . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
" i don't want to seem rude , but how do people taste ? " he doesn't remember , which is symptomatic of the problem of the documentary keep the river on your right : a modern cannibal tale , an intriguing but frustrating look back at a man's life . told with interviews conducted on locations where tobais once traveled and with archival footage -- he was a big hit on the television show circuit in 1969 -- the movie tantalizes but rarely satisfies . a man who convincingly claims to have found inner peace , tobias proves to be a rather bland interviewee . once the shock factor of his having once eaten another human is over , the movie doesn't have much more to offer . what we have is a story about an honest man who is happy to share his thoughts with us , but who has remarkably little insightful to say about his one , brief episode of cannibalism . we would certainly , at least , want to ask the reporter some very probing questions . keep the river on your right : a modern cannibal tale runs rather long at 1 : 35 . it is rated r for depiction of mature thematic material and would be acceptable for older teenagers . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
this time , however , it is not just any heartthrob , but none other than cover boy heath ledger ( 10 things i hate about you and the patriot ) who plays the lead , william thatcher . just as easy to guess is the story's big " twist . " sossamon provides a nice smile but little else . a wonderfully comic bettany , acting like a boisterous frat house president at an ivy league school , steals every scene he's in . although my female friends will probably disagree with me , bettany's performance provides a much more convincing reason to see the movie than ledger's looks . the movie is at its the best when it's the most over the top , which , regretfully , isn't nearly often enough . the first match , for example , has the medieval crowd singing and clapping , " we will , we will , rock you ! " it's an exhilarating moment that literally rocks the house . the dialog is mainly modern , but writer brian helgeland , who also directs , throws in a few more authentic sounding lines as when william declares , " love has given me wings so i must fly . " it just goes on and on , turning what should be an energetic tale into an endurance contest . there's even a needless side story about william's blind father . it all adds up to 40 minutes of bloat in a film that should have been released in a fighting trim . it is rated pg-13 for action violence , some nudity and brief sex-related dialogue and would be acceptable for kids about 7 and up . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
described by some as an iranian woody allen , farmanara is more of a poignantly tragic comedian . with its references to poe and dickens , this slice of the end of a man's life strikes universal themes . as you might guess , the film has certain autobiographical elements in that farmanara was himself kept for 20 years from making films . the film is in persian with english subtitles . it is not rated but might be pg for mature themes . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
nothing like a large breath mint after a lavish dinner . however , the ones in jean-marie poir ? 's time-traveling , fish-out-of-water comedy , just visiting , taste a bit funny since just moments before they were deodorizing the water in the urinals in the men's room . relying heavily on such bathroom humor , the movie is something of a crowd-pleaser , but i found it worth little more than some smiles . the story's on-going joke is that julia doesn't realize that he is from the past , even if he does talk , act , dress and smell very strange . the movie's shtick is one long series of physical comedy gags , the best of which are in the trailers . rather than going on with the slapstick examples like the freeing of the " family feud " figures " trapped " in the tv set , let me end with the one serious note in the movie . it stands foursquare against slavery . makes you want to go straight home and emancipate all of your servants . it is rated pg-13 for violence and crude humor and would be acceptable for kids about 5 and up . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
with wonderfully revealing dresses -- too revealing in the case of her surprisingly knobby knees -- she takes men's breath away . the picture's most memorable sequence has her washing her car like a sex toy in something approximating a clothed version of a playboy video . douglas's bouffant beehive turns out to be the funniest part of the picture . although the movie does have its moments , it is an uneven and fairly forgettable comedy that produces only sporadic laughter . there's no reason to see it , but , if you do go , you'll probably have a decent time . whatever you do , don't make a trip to the concession stand until you've enjoyed the car wash sequence . it is rated r for violence , sexuality and language and would be acceptable for most teenagers . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
nothing like low expectations to enhance your movie-going pleasure . invited to a special theatrical screening of bharat nalluri's the crow : salvation , recently released on tape and dvd , i wasn't particularly looking forward to it . although i wouldn't quite go so far as to recommend it , the movie does have a terrific look and some intriguing , albeit overly dramatic , acting . the script is so over the top that it would probably work better for an animated movie than a live-action production . think of the film as a cross between dark city and a charles bronson revenge thriller . shot impressively by carolyn chen , the movie has a striking look of dark blues shrouded in fog . the red of the ever-present blood serves as the main contrast to the film's bluish tint . if you rent the movie and you find the story a bit too ludicrous , you can always enjoy the visuals . it is rated r for pervasive strong violence and for sexual content and language . it would be acceptable for older teenagers . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
ah , fantasies ! and 2 a . m . , she will be available for his pleasure , but there will be no touching , no mouth kissing , no penetration and no talking about feelings . that these regulations will prove problematic for both is obvious from the start . " you know that , right ? " imagine that ! the movie has an ugly look almost as if they eschewed filming it on digital tape and purposely chose vhs instead . in a movie about sex that chooses to come in unrated , the surprise is that there isn't more , well , sex . for all its verbal and physical explicitness , it is in some ways quite prudish as it completely avoids full-frontal nudity when to show it would have been much more natural . the movie's transparent message is that there's a difference between love and sex -- well , duh ! richard and florence's first sexual encounter ends in laughter , hinting of a realism that never quite materializes . the movie ends up being one big tease . there are a lot of scenes that titillate , but , as soon as they are beginning to be successful , wang cuts away to some pretentious small talk . why can't movies follow through with their convictions ? it is not rated but would be nc-17 for graphic sexuality , nudity and language . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
these simple episodes are all admirable but rarely engaging . and , although the movie comes in at a mere 78 minutes , 10 would have sufficed . after about 3 minutes , each of the stories has made its rather straightforward point quite gracefully . the next 20 minutes of each adds little other than needless reinforcement . the mullah , in the story's only memorable line , calls her bicycle , " the devil's mount . " toloui's acting is exquisite , showing her pain and determination with eye expressions alone . it's always hard understanding someone else's religion , but the images shown of islam in this picture give one a feeling of sad repression . and it is the images alone that stay with you after this film is over . the film is in farsi with english subtitles . it is not rated but would probably be a g since there isn't anything offensive . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
a frustrating film , it is more memorable for its unasked questions than for the answers it receives . typical of the unchallenged assertions is the one that the reason that unions have had almost no success in the silicon valley is that the unions are afraid of the big corporations . could it be instead that assembly line workers here in the silicon valley generally like their jobs and are happy to have them ? ( i have a close relative who works on a high tech assembly line . whether any of his assertions have merit , we have little idea since he is the only one interviewed about them . well , no end , but lots of hiccups along the way as we have so recently been reminded as the economy as gone into a stall . a documentary should teach or provoke , preferably both . it is hard to figure out what secrets of silicon valley has to say to us that we didn't already know . jayadev does rile us up some , but mainly because the filmmakers don't challenge him more or ask some pointed question to those he is accusing . it is not rated but would be a g and acceptable for all ages . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
an uneven story that moves in fits and spurts , it has trouble ever quite deciding what it wants to be . not a romance , per se , although there is an obligatory sex scene , which is both brief and bland , the film is more of an exploration of two characters' lives . catch , for example , may or may not be alive . one thing is certain , the movie is in no rush to get wherever it is going . the line feels rather like a lecture to the audience to stop being impatient . at its best , the movie can drive home some excellent points with the best of these showing how a single moment in one's life can be so incredibly precious or tragic . but the proof of the story's effectiveness comes in the end . catch and sharon each have what are obviously designed to be three-hankie scenes , but both leave you completely dry-eyed . one thing is certain , you can't fault the acting since it is splendid throughout . it is rated r for language , violence and a scene of sexuality and would be acceptable for teenagers . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
" why are you so afraid to leave the nest ? " jody tries to be cool around melvin , which isn't always easy . " you remember your curfew . " with melvin's rippling muscles and big tattoos , this makes for an impressive image . quite upset that melvin is devouring all of the kool-aid -- notice the choice of a child's drink -- jody wants to say something , but criticizing melvin does not seem like a promising idea . jody has ambitions . the film's recurring image is that of a grown man still in the womb . shocking and mildly cute at first , this is a visual that rapidly loses its appeal . written and directed by john singleton , who was responsible for the recent shaft remake as well as one of my personal favorites , rosewood , baby boy never rises above the level of a soap opera . yes , it is a well made soap opera , but not one that we care much about . then again , some people can't get enough of the tv soaps and dutifully set tapes to keep up with each day's shenanigans . it is rated r for strong sexuality , language , violence and some drug use and would be acceptable for older teenagers . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
the problem with movies like rush hour 2 that give away almost all of the good jokes in the trailers is that seeing the movie itself is about as much fun as watching reruns . in rush hour 2 , this problem is further compounded by the lack of freshness in the jokes themselves . the movie's almost saving grace is that it stars that teddy bear of a martial arts comedic hero , jackie chan . and women , if you do have a thing for jackie , you'll be glad to know that you'll get a chance to catch a glimpse of his naked buttocks this time . blink , and you'll miss it . they have good chemistry together even if tucker keeps trying to upstage chan . but , if you've seen the trailers , you already know the joke . the setup this time , to the extent that one is needed in a chan movie , concerns the thwarting of an international counterfeiting ring . don cheadle has a cameo that works best in the outtakes , just about always the best part of any chan film anyway . as always , chan is lovable , funny and vulnerable . unlike most action heroes , his pain is palpable . working from an unimaginative script by ross lamanna , director brett ratner is never able to get the pacing right , with long slack sections slowing the momentum between funny moments . in the movies today , all roads lead to las vegas , where the neon glitters and all of the buildings are little more than movie sets for adults . rush hour 2 ends there in a burst of glory that hints at what could have been if the rest of the movie were better written and more tightly paced . it is rated pg-13 for action violence , language and some sexual material and would be acceptable for kids around 8 and up . they both thought that it was funny and had well planned out laughs . in the silicon valley it will be showing at the amc and the century theaters . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
ah , fantasies ! and 2 a . m . , she will be available for his pleasure , but there will be no touching , no mouth kissing , no penetration and no talking about feelings . that these regulations will prove problematic for both is obvious from the start . " you know that , right ? " imagine that ! the movie has an ugly look almost as if they eschewed filming it on digital tape and purposely chose vhs instead . in a movie about sex that chooses to come in unrated , the surprise is that there isn't more , well , sex . for all its verbal and physical explicitness , it is in some ways quite prudish as it completely avoids full-frontal nudity when to show it would have been much more natural . the movie's transparent message is that there's a difference between love and sex -- well , duh ! richard and florence's first sexual encounter ends in laughter , hinting of a realism that never quite materializes . the movie ends up being one big tease . there are a lot of scenes that titillate , but , as soon as they are beginning to be successful , wang cuts away to some pretentious small talk . why can't movies follow through with their convictions ? it is not rated but would be nc-17 for graphic sexuality , nudity and language . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
nothing like low expectations to enhance your movie-going pleasure . invited to a special theatrical screening of bharat nalluri's the crow : salvation , recently released on tape and dvd , i wasn't particularly looking forward to it . although i wouldn't quite go so far as to recommend it , the movie does have a terrific look and some intriguing , albeit overly dramatic , acting . the script is so over the top that it would probably work better for an animated movie than a live-action production . think of the film as a cross between dark city and a charles bronson revenge thriller . shot impressively by carolyn chen , the movie has a striking look of dark blues shrouded in fog . the red of the ever-present blood serves as the main contrast to the film's bluish tint . if you rent the movie and you find the story a bit too ludicrous , you can always enjoy the visuals . it is rated r for pervasive strong violence and for sexual content and language . it would be acceptable for older teenagers . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
hiroyuki okiura's jin-roh : the wolf brigade is an animated film with handsome images , haunting music and a nearly incomprehensible story . this is further complicated by the animators' proclivity to draw the characters so that they are only distinguishable by sex . the women all look alike as do most of the men . the movie works best when you ignore the narrative completely and let the background visuals and the magnificent score sweep you up . the animators capture beautifully the buildings , the sky and all the inanimate objects . but the characters are drawn lifelessly as if they were little more than talking statues . perhaps i could have gotten beyond the limitations of the animations if the story were better developed . ( for an example of japanese anime at its finest see princess mononoke , one of my all-time favorite films . ) the impressive uniform of the policemen with its bright red night-vision goggles for eyes make the cops look like science fiction monsters . although kazuki should shoot her , he doesn't . the problem with jin-roh is that it keeps feeling like you've just started reading the eighty-third edition of a comic book that you've never even heard of before . but all is not lost . turn off your brain , and let the images and music flow in . whatever you do , don't go down the rat hole of trying to make any sense out of it . jin-roh : the wolf brigade runs at least a half hour too long at 1 : 42 . the film is in dubbed english . it is not rated but might be an r for graphic violence and would be acceptable for kids around 12 or so and up . my son jeffrey , age 12 , who thought the movie was only pretty good , gave it * * 1/2 . he liked the images but complained that you couldn't tell the characters apart and that the story , especially the ending , was confusing . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
the curse of the jade scorpion , written and directed by woody allen , suffers from the woody allen curse . it's a malaise of mediocrity that has struck almost all of his recent films . they're all merely okay -- cute at times with some nice laughs but as forgettable as sitcom reruns . the weird and wacky theme music for the film manages to be the movie's most endearing and original accomplishment . many of the jokes , however , are retreads such as the one about the blind beggar . guess what ? elizabeth berkley ( showgirls ) and charlize theron are given a couple of throwaway parts -- berkley as a woman who looks easy , but isn't , and theron as a blonde bombshell , who is happiest in bed . as the story evolves , it turns more and more into a love story . if you like to see old , frail , balding guys taking home the smart , good-looking women , you'll like where the story goes . i must admit that i still find woody charming , but i suspect it is more in reverence for his great films like annie hall and hannah and her sisters than for his current pictures . the best that can be said of his latest film is that it's kind of entertaining . the curse of the jade scorpion runs too long at 1 : 44 . it is rated pg-13 for some sexual content and would be acceptable for kids around 9 and up . my son jeffrey , age 12 , gave it * * 1/2 . he said that it was funny , but that the film " wasn't the greatest and wasn't the worst . " it was okay . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
the glass house is an entertaining thriller that almost works . using a predictable script by wesley strick ( the saint ) , long-time television director daniel sackheim brings a strong sense of visual style and foreboding . the formulaic film is shot in the cool blue tones that are all the rage today in movie mysteries . although she is talking about ruby's sketching , this advice obviously is meant for the audience . the problem with the script is that most of the plot " twists " are both simple and easy to spot . when the writer worries that things aren't completely obvious , he inserts the visual equivalent of exclamation points to make sure we understand . the glasses live in -- yes , you guessed it -- a big , glass house . thankfully , the glass metaphor ends there . the squabbling siblings are the most believable part of the picture . did i mention yet that the kids come with a big inheritance ? doesn't matter . even if i didn't , i'm sure you've already guessed it . " hi , you guys need some help ? " " yes , " ruby replies with succinct understatement . the writer needed some help too , but he didn't get it . the director , however , does his best to keep your attention and generally succeeds . it is rated pg-13 for " sinister thematic elements , violence , drug content and language , " and would be acceptable for kids around 12 and up . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
happy accidents , written and directed by brad anderson ( next stop wonderland ) , is a cute and quirky tale that would best be classified as a science fiction , romantic comedy . starring marisa tomei and vincent d'onofrio as lovers ruby weaver and sam deed , the movie's serious flaw is that the chemistry between them is never quite credible . individually , they both deliver interesting performances , tomei as a hopeless codependent and d'onofrio as an awkward guy who is either a " back traveler " from the year 2470 or a nut case , but together they never make a believable couple . other than the light comedy , what makes the story work is the intrigue as to whether the movie will ever reveal the truth , if any , behind sam's time-traveling claims . sometimes the movie plays like a variation on the old peter sellers's movie , being there , but it is the best when it's the freshest . even if the film is a near miss , at least it's just the easy-going type of material that is appropriate for a world recently turned horribly upside-down . it is rated r for " language " and would be acceptable for teenagers . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
david lynch's mulholland drive is a cross between a slow-motion episode of " the x files " and a super long version of " twin peaks . " a baffling but always intriguing failure , the movie gets more confusing , not less , as the story unfolds . lynch won the director's prize at this year's cannes film festival for the film . it would have been more appropriate if he had a gotten a dual award -- a first for directing and a booby prize for writing . lynch can make the simple act of walking down a small staircase ominous , but his script is full of bewildering and unrealistic characters for whom we care nothing . something bad is happening . " yours will probably be an equally simplistic , " huh ? " you'll be thinking that a lot during this movie , which needs a pictorial scorecard to keep track of all of the quirky characters who make brief appearances . almost every scene is full of foreboding , although the source of the danger is never quite clear . frequently lynch appears to have his camera dolly floating on a gently undulating sea in order to enhance the audience's queasiness . " i'm going to trust you to sort this thing out , " coco ( ann miller ) tells betty at one point . mulholland drive runs way too long at 2 : 26 . it is rated r for " violence , language and some strong sexuality " and would be acceptable for older teenagers . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
for fans only . gillian grisman's traditionally composed documentary , grateful dawg , features jerry garcia and david grisman in non-stop , mainly bluegrass music , overlaid with a group of fairly uninteresting talking heads . their music together is certainly pleasant enough , but , unless you're a fan of this genre , you may find it as sleep inducing as i did . these two veteran musicians look so much alike that they could easily pass for brothers . older hippie types with graying , frizzy hair and beard and chunky builds , they are wonderfully gregarious and instantly likeable . one of the interviewees explains that the difference between them is that grisman is highly disciplined whereas garcia is so laid-back that , if a note didn't come out quite the right way , it was no big deal . this isn't particularly apparent in the many jam sessions and concert footage that we're shown . they seem almost interchangeably identical . if almost an hour and a half of folk tunes from blue grass to old whaling songs sounds like just your cup of tea , then grateful dawg should prove very satisfying to your palate . on the other hand , if you prefer more limited doses of this kind of music , you'll probably find yourself nodding off . personally i found only one part of the film completely satisfying , which is their " the thrill is gone " music video , which appears to be included in its entirety . it is rated pg-13 for " brief language " and would be acceptable for kids of all ages . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
diabolique is a classic thriller and murder mystery that was made in 1954 , but while watching it i thought it was made in the 30s or 40s . it has the look and feel of one of the original hitchcock movies from the 30s . the original uncut version of the movie that is now showing has fresh looking and handsome black and white prints and has seven minutes of footage restored . i will set up the plot for you , but no more , since the twists in the movie are the main reason to see it . the other characters are unimportant and not worth mentioning . other than the fun script and all of the games it plays convincing you of one " fact " only to start making you think that just the opposite is true , the only other outstanding part of the movie is the cinematography . it transports you to france and to a time past . the feel of the countryside and of the little private school is at once both hokey and wonderfully evocative of a simpler era . the film maker is careful to focus in menacingly on the expressions on the characters faces when they are surprised or frighten--very hitchcockean . the problem i had with the film and the reason i did not rate it higher was the one dimensional acting . the husband was supposed to be the canonical cad , but i did not buy meurisse performance for a minute . he was totally unconvincing . signoret did an acceptable job of portraying a character who showed no emotion at all . the only interesting work was that of vera clouzot--wife of the director henri-georges clouzot . her performance had some depth , but still she was mainly a stick figure . her version of fear reminded me of a caricature of someone in acting 101 learning how to demonstrate fear . the movie runs about two hours . it is not rated but probably would get an r for the half dozen uses of the f word and the adult themes . there is no sex or nudity . the little violence it has is realistic , but not bloody or particularly frightening . it would be fine for any teenager to see . i recommend the picture for a fun and tricky plot and for the nostalgic filming , and i award * * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . reviewed written on : march 8 , 1995 opinions expressed are solely mine & not meant to reflect my employer's . 
it stars albert finney in another of his wonderful performances . he makes you feel his character's joy and his pain . unlike his excellent role last year in the browning version , this time we find him as basically a happy and joyful character albeit one with an underlying sadness whereas in the other show he played a sad person who repressed any feeling of contentment . the bus in this movie is like none you have ever seen before . it is almost reminiscent of the magic school bus kid's tv show on pbs . they have great fun doing this--most especially finney . watch how much fun he is having . it may make you want to spring into a character in the next dull meeting you are at and start quoting lines from oscar wilde . the plot is predictable , but who cares . you really have fun watching all of the regulars on the bus and soon you begin to feel you are one of them . there is a key part of the rest of the movie that all of the reviews i have seen have talked about , but i will not give it away . you will be able to guess it early on probably . suffice it to say , that i think finney is quite convincing with all parts of the role . the grays and the steel blues of dublin in the early 60s are a bit melancholy but beautiful . as one who loves old buses , this show was a special treat . the colors in the cinematography were well chosen and quite evocative of the mood of the piece . this is not a mega movie . it is more like a little tone poem . for what it is , it is well done . although it is bittersweet , it is a feel good movie . i left the theater singing the happy song from the credits and feeling elated as if i now somehow was one of the regulars and had some part in soleme . the movie is carefully edited and runs 1 : 38 . it is rated r for a little nudity , a little violence and adult themes . older teenagers could see it with no problems . i recommend this show to you and give it * * 1/2 . although it is not popular with most critics ( lots of " who cares " and mild thumbs down ) , i was happy to find that one major critic ( peter stack of the sf chronicle ) did like it and even more than me in that he gave it his top rating . i think the movie is good , but it is not that good . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are solely mine & not meant to reflect my employer's . 
if you have been lucky enough to spent some time in ireland as i did for three weeks , you know how beautiful it is . the movie shows off beautiful scenery without tending to overpower the story as some movies do , e . g . , legends of the fall . the cinematography by kenneth macmillan was peaceful and serene in a natural and graceful way . i think this may the age of the wallflowers . as you would guess , there are complications and complexities . it would be nice to have religion appear in a movie every now and then in a positive light . after all , we have lots of movie glorifying everything from gangsters to heavy drinking to you name it . oh well , . . . the problem with the movie is that , based on the information i just gave you , you could write the script now , and you would probably be close . the writer ( andrew davies ) took no risks , and the result is a completely predictable plot . the director ( pat o'donnell ) went the safe route as well making for a nicely homogenized show . this is all quite surprising since the talent of minnie driver was clear and yet was so often underutilized . moreover , the writer also wrote the very inventive script for the to play the king british series recently on pbs here and the director did the extremely moving and imaginative movie cal . although it could have been much better , and although i was able to forecast every turn in the movie , i did enjoy being a member of benny's circle of friends for a couple of hours . she was a character i'm glad i got to know . her strength of conviction and her charm wove a spell on me . it is rated pg-13 for sexual discussions and scenes . there is no nudity of any kind and no violence . the movie would be fine for anyone old enough to be seriously interested in romance , say 10 and above i guess . i give the movie a mild thumbs up with the reservations mentioned above , and i award it * * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . reviewed written on : march 31 , 1995 opinions expressed are solely mine & not meant to reflect my employer's . 
so would you like a show where you can kick back your heels , not tax your overworked brain , have a lot of laughs , listen to well written dialog , and watch some good looking actors and actresses ? well , i have the movie for you--miami rhapsody . first , let's play guess the director . you have a movie set on the east coast and filled with jewish people and comedy . it starts with an elegant typeface and has cole porter jazz music playing loudly yet soothingly in the background . when it cuts to the actors , you have sarah jessica parker talking documentary style to the camera . finally , the dialog is fast paced , witty , and 80% of the references are about sex . so you guessed it ? woody allen , right ? it was written and directed by david frankel who does a wonderful homage to woody . it does not compare to woody's best , but it is rather like his comedies sans woody's usual hidden darker meanings . this is not very done explicitly--it is mainly handled with some funny dialog . the only lines i can remember are not suitable for printing , but you will laugh when you hear them . the only jokes that had no place in it and certainly did not work were a couple of tired , old anti-working women jokes that i have no idea why they put them in since the rest of the script was bright and intelligent . the rest of the show is just a lot of light hearted dialog . there is not much of a plot . there is no tension or drama , and there is certainly no hidden meanings or serious parts . this movie is like a meringue--not much there but sinfully fun to eat . the movie runs a breezy and perfectly short 1 : 35 . it is correctly rated pg-13 for a few bad words and an adult theme . there is no nudity , violence , or drugs . it would be fine for anyone over 12 . i recommend it to you as a fun diversion and give it * * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are solely mine & not meant to reflect my employer's . 
t . is 1952 movie showing in revival around the us , and it is also on video . my ( almost ) six-year-old , loved it so much that we saw it twice in the same month . t . was written by dr . seuss but it * not * an animated film . although the writing reminds you of dr . seuss's wit , it is not done in rhyme which i must admit i somewhat wish it had been . of the many memorable lines was " i know he talks a lot , but i wonder if he says very much " . the boy and the plumber spend most of the movie trying to get out of this predicament . the movie is partially a musical and has some dance numbers as well . it is filled with the same sort of bizarre images from the dr . seuss books . dr . t . and the boy's mom wear some pretty outrageous costumes as well . depending on your mood and your age , you may love this show , may think it is terminally silly , or may be somewhere in between . in the end i gave it * * 1/2 , and i recommend it to people of all ages if they can be young at heart . i understand that the movie bombed when it was first released , but is now considered something of a cult classic . my son , as would any kid from 3-10 i think , loves the show . we took along one of his buddies , and he liked it too . if your kid has to have the fast pacing of today's action heroes , he or she might be bored by it however . it does run 1 : 35 which was a tad long . it is unrated , but if there was rating below g , it would get it . the people in this movie did not even think bad words much less say them , and there certainly is nothing violent , sexy , or anything to offend anyone . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . reviewed written on : january 21 , 1995 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
death and the maiden is roman polanski's latest film and it clearly has his stamp on it . i find polanski's movies always to be smartly written and directed . he assumes that he has an audience who goes to the movies with their thinking caps on , and his movies always surprise you . sometimes the surprises come as unexpected twists in the plot ( as in chinatown or frantic ) and at other time in how harsh and intense the way the characters are drawn ( as in bitter moon ) . finally , his movies can be so heavy that they are hard to watch . if you are prone to nightmares , his movies provide fertile ground . death and the maiden is all of the above . the movie , made from a play , is about the mystery of whether kingsley was the torturer or not . the title death and the maiden comes from the name of a schubert quartet , and it plays a central thread that runs through the entire show . the camera cuts from the tension of the violin strings to the tension in weaver's face and hands . for the rest of the movie you are not sure if she is going to kill him , torture him or what , but rest assured that it is a long night of terror for the three leads and for the audience . the well-written script by rafeal yglesuas and ariel dorfman takes many twists . have yourself some fun and try to guess the ending . she is excellent here as one of the angriest and bitterest women you will ever meet . you wonder early on in the show why he would stay with someone so angry and mean , but as the plot develops you find out the reasons he puts up with this miserable marriage . sometimes you think he is a victim and other times you are convinced he is an animal . a fascinating piece of acting . wilson on the other hand is weak and gives a pedestrian performance . he was rarely believable . within the confines of the plot , polanski did all that was possible , and i do recommend the film for an excellent script and for some top-notch acting . on the other hand , i only gave it * * 1/2 because it was a tad too intense for me . it runs 1 : 47 and is correctly rated r for violence plus a little profanity and nudity . i do not think this movie is appropriate for kids , but it might be acceptable for non-sensitive older teenagers . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
i keep thinking to myself as i watched it , this is all hogwash , but it is so well crafted , i am glad i came to see it . from the get go , the movie hits you over the head with its anti-religious theme . the sermon sounds rather reminiscent of a socialist workers speech . this irritates the much more traditional father greg . now , there is a convincing argument . all of the above is merely the setup for this complex picture . the one message that come across loud and clear is that the church is to blame for much of the misery in the world . although the plot is 180 degrees from my personal beliefs , i thought the director ( antonia bird ) and the writer ( jimmy mcgovern ) fashioned an extremely compelling and thought provoking movie . the movie was carefully cast . the acting was good , and the part by linus roache was outstanding . his speech was careful and controlled except the yelling scene mentioned above . it added to the movie and never overpowered it . it was filmed in poor neighborhoods in liverpool and manchester which fit the script well . my only major problem with the show , other than ridiculous depiction of the church , was the ending . some will undoubtedly like the symbolism of the ending . for me , it was too overblown and manipulative . on the other hand , i found myself , while i was watching priest , wondering how they would try to end such a strange show . i had no good ideas then , and i have no suggestions now . priest runs a well edited 1 : 43 . it is unrated but would be a hard r . there is more male french kissing in it than all of the other movies i have seen combined . there are several extremely explicit homosexual sex scenes albeit without any nudity . we also have incest and tons of blasphemy . other stuff too to get it an r or perhaps an nc-17 . i do not think it is appropriate for children , period . if you are interested in serious , well acted movies that discuss highly controversial albeit extremely depressing subjects , then i recommend priest to you . i give it a thumbs up and award it * * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
in today's version we have the great director and sometimes actor richard attenborough playing santa . the 6 year old girl here is acted by an absolutely precious actress named mara wilson . wilson and attenborough are well cast for their parts and do an excellent job with them . as the movie progresses , you become pretty doggone sure that this guy really is kriss kringle , and if he flew off in a sleigh , you would find it quite natural . their on-again/off-again romance is realistically done although i found perkin's character a sadly cold one . it is macy's , but they call it cole's in the movie . well , as you guessed , our kriss will be the key to their potential success . the movie has a long and slow first part that lasts two thirds of the show . it tells the story in a sweet and almost dreamy fashion . nothing wrong with this part per se except i just wish it were a bit shorter , has less of the hostile takeover stuff , and wish they had pumped up the energy level . the show comes into its own in the rousing concluding third , including and , most especially , the court room scene . the ending to the trial , which is slightly different than the original , was well done . the end of the entire show was telegraphed an hour before , but , that was okay since it was great . the first two thirds of miracle on 34th street caused by rating to be only * * 1/2 , but i do recommend it to the entire family . i would say that anyone over 4 should like it . we took my 5 1/2 year old boy , and he said he liked it . he got fairly bored with the corporate intrigue stuff since it went right over his head , and he got a little scared when the mommy cried and also during the trial , but overall , he gave it a thumbs up . it runs 1 : 54 and is rated incorrectly pg . this is pure g stuff--no bad language , violence , or sex . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . reviewed written on : december 2 , 1994 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
quiz show is about a time in the late 50s that i remember from my childhood . in quiz show , the brightest , well at least those with the best memories , were the heroes . the movie about this time is directed and produced by robert redford . i remember this era , and i have read about it so i can say that the movie is a fairly accurate story with a couple of key exceptions i will cover later . what makes this movie work is the history , the reenactment of the old quiz shows , and the excellent performance of ralph fiennes as charles van doren . his cold bloodedness with no remorse in that movie was chilling in the extreme . unfortunately , there is a lot about the show that does not work . the show runs 2 : 10 but feels like 3 hours . many long scenes are unnecessary and should have been cut entirely . the script is too mushy . the purest of the pure are the congressional staffers . ah , what a contrast with today . now , the producers of 21 were bad guys . the problem with the show is that you think that the network and the sponsor was in on it too . if you stay to see all of the credits you will learn that it was never proven that either had anything to do with the scandal . they word it in such a way that you are supposed to believe that they actually did and hence were guilty until proven innocent . about the network's guilt i know nothing , but about the head of geritol ( played by martin scorsese ) i read a recent article in the wall street journal . maybe i am just a softie , but i could forgive redford his playing loose with the facts for no good reason ( the contestants and the producers of 21 provided enough bad guys to go around ) if he had just made a better movie . it needed more energy , crisper editing , and a reworked script . in the end , i have to give the film a mild thumbs up as it is an interesting story and the performance by fiennes is worth seeing . i give the show * * 1/2 . it is correctly rated pg-13 for a little mildly bad language and because it is a show that would not interest anyone under 13 . i was disappointed by this show since i thought it would be much better and because my number 2 show on my top ten list of best movies of all of the 1980s was ordinary people also directed by robert redford . oh well , . . . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
bullets over broadway is woody allen's latest movie . it is one of his pure comedies with no attempt at any seriousness . it is not as slapstick or silly as say bananas or take the money and run . it is more in the vein of the purple rose of cairo or broadway danny rose . my thumb ended in the up position mainly on the strength of palminteri's performance . the sound effects editing and , to a lessor extent , the dialog made bullets over broadway feel more like a play than a movie . this can be heard most of all in the indoor scenes . the speech dominates everything , is frequently spoken extra loud without shouting , and there is a minimum of ambient noise in the background . the acting is good , but other than palminteri , nothing special . the dialog is bright and funny but not allen's best . the street scenes of new york are extremely well done . bullets over broadway runs only 1 : 38 but still seemed like it needed a bit more editing . it is rated r but should have been pg-13 . it has some profanity , a little violence , and no sex or nudity . it would be fine for teenagers to see by themselves . i give it a mild thumbs up - i had hoped for more , but it is funny . i award it * * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
the interest in the show is provided by hurt's character more than the boy's although the script was written , i think , to have the movie center around the boy . the scenes where the boys trashes his house and he just stares without speaking were a bit much even for his withdrawn character . i did not buy these scenes . on the whole though , hurt plays it very convincingly , and you feel really sorry for him . the main problem in the show for me was the casting of the boy . he was supposed to be an enigma , but he carried it overboard . during most of the movie it was hard to understand anything at all about what the boy was feeling and hence hard to empathize with him . the director ( chris menges ) should have realized this and given him better guidance . all of the minor characters were quite good except the role played by john hurt ( no relation to william ) which seemed to be out of another movie . my favorite minor character was jane horrocks's portrayal of the social worker . she was the only funny character in the movie and every one of her lines was a riot . i wish her part had been made larger . given that everyone loved her in life is sweet whereas i hated her in it , i was surprised myself at how enchanted i was with her acting in second best . just watching the movie may make you want to move to the serenity of wales - lovely cinematography ( ashley rowe ) . a lot of the movie was either sad or disturbing because of the subject matter . the movie runs 1 : 45 and is rated pg-13 for self-inflicted bloody wounds and some frightening subject matter . i think it would be okay for mature teenagers . i recommend this serious movie to you and give * * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
blue sky is an engaging movie because of the two leads and of the family in trouble theme it deals with so honestly . sad to say that it also has a needless conspiratorial parallel plot , but more on that later . okay , when i said tommy lee jones , you already have an image of his part . right ? he is tough as nails , smart as can be , totally in ? control , invulnerable , and self-confidence personified . this is a character like i have never seen jones attempt before . he manages to pull all of this off and be believable albeit i would rather have seen jones in another movie in his more traditional role . i have seen jessica lange play fairly similar parts before , and she was again excellent at it . i would have given anything if their parts were written larger . i just wish the kids' story were not such a small subplot . it is a part he plays in almost every show he is in , and he does it fine . snodgress gives a pedestrian performance . this was the only part of the show where jones had a backbone which was out of character in this role . i think oliver stone's brother must have been a co-writer of the script . many small aspects of the movie were noteworthy . the sound editing was unusual . the actors talked quite low to each other in many scenes and the background noise was also kept low so that the movie sometimes had the feeling of a stage play . in the end , i gave it * * 1/2 and a mild thumbs up . if they had stuck to the family and its problems , this could have been an ordinary people class show along with a very high rating , but alas , it was not to be . if you look at the credits , you will see that the movie was made in 1991 and has been on the shelf ever since because orion studies went into bankruptcy about the time for its release and so the courts held it up . the movie runs a kind of long 1 : 41 . it is rated correctly pg-13 for a tiny amount of female nudity and for the adult themes . teenagers would be fine at this movie . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
you've had a hard day , and the circuits in your brain have gone on overload . you know you should see the latest swedish film since it is full of angst and deep hidden meanings , but you got so depressed after the last message movie you saw that you couldn't sleep afterwards . you are too busy to see , much less smell the daisies . romance ? well , forget it . does any of this ring true for you ? then , i have a light hearted , fairy tale of a romance for you . there is not much in it , but what there is is a delight and will reaffirm your belief in life and especially in romance . don juan demarco asks the question what is reality and why do you care . is reality a bunch of messy old facts or can you adopt a wonderful fantasy and make it your reality through force of will ? is a firmly and completely believed fantasy more valid than mere facts ? he always wears a large hat , a mask , and clothes that his grandmother says makes him look like zorro . nobody can sweet talk women like he can . his handholding scene is the most erotic i have ever seen excepting only for the one in the age of innocence . don juan's life is fascinating . by the time , he reached sixteen , well , let's just say that many adventures awaited him . there is a lot to recommend this delightful bit of fluff , but let me get the bad news out of the way first . i am sorry to report that the great marlon brando has been kidnapped ! in his place , they have a much larger , quite mediocre , and very boring actor . although he does look like brando , he is clearly someone else . this clown makes you look at your watch every time the camera is on him . there is a lot wonderful about don juan demarco , but at the top is the marvelous performance by johnny depp . the words flow from his lips like butter . his screen presence was completely convincing . the script by jeremy leven is worthy of the brothers grimm . the cinematography by ralf d . bode and the set decoration of mexico is evocative of a romantic era of long ago . it has the feel of like water for chocolate . the natural and richly colorful sets and the warm glow of the filming makes happiness flow through all of your veins . the costumes by kirsten everberg are full of romance and love . finally , this was the first film in a while that has a musical score that i thought really adds to the ambiance . the director , jeremy leven , understood the mood he wanted to create and did it quite well . why he had to cast brando and dunaway , i will never fully understand . yes , i guess , he must have figured that they would add to the box office take , but when he saw the dailies , why didn't he change his mind and get some other actors ? oh well , . . . it is correctly rate pg-13 for two very brief nude scenes , a bloody and deadly sword fight , and a subtle love making scene with all of their clothes on . any kid older than 12 who is interested in romance would like it . i recommend it to you , and i award it * * 1/2 . as i said earlier , it had the potential for a much higher rating . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . 
belle epoque is the movie from spain that won the academy award for best foreign picture . it is a delightful light hearted romance . it is a romantic tale that makes you fall in love with romance itself and certainly , depending on your sex , with the handsome actor and strikingly beautiful and wholesome actresses . also , one of the girls was raised as a boy and does a lot of cross-dressing , but mainly this is pretty straight romantic stuff . the cinematography ( jose luis alcaine ) could easily win awards for its bright earthen colors , and its sharp facial close-ups . on the negative side , there is not a lot here . the directing by fernando trueba was to focus on mood over character development . the script by rafael azcona , jose luis garcia sanchez , and fernando trueba had few memorable parts . belle epoque is more images than substance . ah , but they are wonderful images . very evocative and romantic . i did not like the ending , but it was not essential to the enjoyment of the movie . i suppose i should give it more , but there was only enough here to have me rate it * * 1/2 . i do recommend seeing it . it has very much the overall feel of sirens ( * * * ) , but it is not as good . the movie runs 1 : 48 and is rated r ( but could have almost gotten a pg-13 i think ) . certainly the movie is fine for teenagers . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
i went with low expectations to see little buddha but was quite pleasantly surprised . little buddha is a fairy tale interwoven with a cartoon like telling of the buddha story . like most fairy tales , or operas for that matter , you must be able to suspend disbelieve if you are to proceed . think about it . this is a beautiful film written and directed by bernardo bertolucci who did the last emperor . it was easy to forget logic and go with the story . i am familiar with western judeo-christian beliefs but knew nothing of buddha or any of the legend surrounding his life . i found that part fascinating . i do not know what liberties bertolucci took with the buddha story , but i found it pretty bizarre besides being fascinating , but then again , any religious story probably sounds strange to someone who knows nothing about that religion . bridget fonda's acting ranges from good to excellent . she is good here . isaak gives a blah performance . the little boy is okay . i think keanu reeves ( e . g . , in much ado about nothing - like his acting abilities ) is a terrible actor . this movie confirmed my opinion . it is the monks ( led by ruocheng ying ) and the story itself that make this movie come alive . the imaginative script is by bernardo bertolucci , mark peploe , and rudy wurlitzer . it shows the monks as real people who joke , fall asleep accidentally , and have to be reminded to take their medicine yet have almost a mystic quality about them nevertheless . little buddha runs 2 : 03 and editing by pietro scalia should have been tighter . i give the movie * * 1/2 and recommend it to anyone with an open mind . it is correctly rated pg . i think kids over say 8 would enjoy it . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . reviewed written on : june 10 , 1994 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
the movie is pure fluff . it is rated pg . just quirky enough but never overacting . lots of great irish scenery in the movie so if you get bored , just ignore the actors and watch the cinematography ( ashley rowe ) of the irish countryside and town . there is frankly not much in the movie . the mystery is fun , but pretty lightweight . it has a nice ending which is sort of easy to guess . the script ( hugh leonard ) is lightweight but with a few good laughs . it is correctly rated pg and kids over about 8 may like it . i give it a mild thumbs up and rate it * * 1/2 . it never offends , rarely bores , and is a pleasant diversion . a relaxing , simple , feel good movie . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . reviewed written on : may 28 , 1994 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
first , barcelona is not a foreign film regardless of the title and the fact that it is playing at art houses along with foreign films . it is an american film with american and spanish actors all speaking english . no subtitles and no dubbing which is good since this movie is non-stop dialog . he is no more successful at this than he is at selling . now that i reflect on it , the men were pretty handsome too . both are in the movie , but the two cousins get 80% of the lines . what is right with this movie is the directing and the script ( both were done by whit stillman ) . it is a talkative 2 hour movie with all of the pauses taken out so that we are left with incessant conversation for 1 hour and 41 minutes . in other parts they discuss how motivational books apply or not in certain situations . it is a comedy because the lines are funny , but they are delivered so seriously and so rapidly that nobody laughed much in the theater , but that was okay . the acting is either natural or amateurish - take your pick . for me it worked . i suspect some people will walk out saying , what a lot of drivel , who cares about these cousins ? others will rate it a classic in the my dinner with andre genre . for me i am somewhere in-between . i give it a thumbs up and rate it * * 1/2 . barcelona is rated pg-13 , but there is no nudity or bad language . there is a lot of smoking . i guess the rating is about right in that younger kids would probably not get it anyway . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . reviewed written on : august 25 , 1994 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
it is a comedy/documentary/horror movie . i smiled from the opening credits where they told you it was a true story till the last credit where they reassured you that " no flies were injured or killed in the making of the film . " whew ! i was worried until those ending credits . i never laughed out loud , but i kept a constant grin on my face from ear to ear . remember ozzie and harriet ? well , this time harriet is cuter than ever , but she is a serial killer . looking at this family , it was hard not wanting to be a part of it . you had to keep reminding yourself that no matter how sweet the mom seemed , she was a serial killer after all . great cameo roles too by suzanne thighmasters summers and patty lets-rob-a-bank hearst . the movie was filmed in bright lights and vivid primary colors by robert stevens and robert m . stevens . the music by basil poledouris was continual sweetness and happiness . it really set the tone well . equal to turner's performance was john waters's direction . i have seen none of these and had it not been for the wonderful trailers i saw ahead of time , i think i never would have seen serial mom because i hate slap stick comedy , but this was a highly controlled comedy - certainly not slap stick . okay , so what is wrong with it ? it was way overboard too gory . other than that , which cost the movie a half star in my ratings , i found no other faults . waters does exactly what he sets out to do , and turner delivers a terrific performance . less cuteness and bigger laughs would have help get it another 1/2 star from me . the sight gags made you smile , but the dialog rarely elicited laughter . it is rate r for the intense gore . teenagers can probably handle the movie fine . i rate it * * 1/2 and recommend you see it but be prepared to look away when during the bloody scenes . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
bitter moon is a very well made and well directed movie by roman polanski . it is a story about depravity and cruelty told mainly with long flashbacks . when you see her , you may find it very hard to believe he would ever get bored of her , but you must suspend disbelief . you may be able to guess where the movie goes from there , but i suspect you will not guess the ending . this is one depressing , but well done movie . the acting by scott-thomas and coyote are okay except than coyote goes overboard a bit . i am a big fan of scott-thomas , and i wish she had a much bigger role . grant gives the worst performance . he keeps looking like he couldn't believe he actually agreed to make such a movie . seigner's acting is the best of the bunch , but the real high point of this movie is the directing . polanski knows what he wants to do , and he does it . some movies are feel good movies . this one is a big black hole of depressing images . if hollywood screen tested this movie , they would have demanded another ending . nothing upbeat here . polanski paints a world without redemption . it is rated r for abuse and violence . it would be too intense for all but the most mature teenagers . i recommend bitter moon to adults and rate it * * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
it seems that in the 18th and 19th centuries there were singers called castrati . the movie was quite explicit in demonstrating their techniques . the women of the 1700s appeared to be big fans of this sport . success gives him little pleasure . quite a contrast . as the movie evolves , the script by andree and gerard corbiau shows us that actually both brothers are troubled and tormented . although farinelli was nominated for an oscar for best foreign film , i found the quality of this movie to be all over the map . the good parts are brilliant , but poor ones will put you to sleep . the story is so unique and fascinating , and the technical aspects of the film so well done , that i could not think about missing seeing this show . sort of a must see , poorly executed picture . okay , what is good about it ? totally believable . second , the art decoration and the cinematography ( walther van den ende ) of the baroque opera houses of the period as well as the costumes were unsurpassed . the clothes that farinelli wore were so imaginative that i wished the costume designer and the set decorator had both won oscars for their work . the acting by enrico loverso is consistently excellent . on the poor side is the script and the directing . the movie starts off with plenty of energy , but after an hour , i was spending a lot of time looking at my watch . the show wore out its welcome . i wish i had left after the first hour . one final negative point , i found krabbe's performance to be pedestrian and unimaginative . although farinelli did not have the material to run the 1 : 50 that it did , i was fond of some of the editing ( joelle hache ) techniques where he would cut from very quiet scenes to loud noisy ones like the hoof beats of large running white horses . the movie is rated r for nudity , sex , drug use , and some realistically bloody scenes . it is basically pretty mild given its subject and would be fine for most teenagers . it is in italian and french with easy to follow english subtitles . for the brilliance of the good parts and for the not to be missed story , i recommend the movie and give it * * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . reviewed written on : may 1 , 1995 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
picture bride is straightforward and poignant tale simply told . it is reminiscent of one of john steinbeck's short novels . although the movie is full of tragedy , hardship , and miserable living conditions , it is nevertheless , a serene and peaceful show . the quiet determination of the people , as amply demonstrated by their ability to sing joyfully even when oppressed , shows an inner peace that seems to permeate the audience as well as the characters . picture bride tells a part of history that i did not know about . one of the exciting reasons to be a movie-goer is to be able to live vicariously segments of history that our teachers never taught us . unlike most of the brides who will go to be laborers in hawaii on sugar cane plantations , riyo is not from the country . you may remember tomita from the wonderful the joy luck club . i do not recall having seen any of the other actors before . although the movie is about inner strength , coping , and finding fulfillment , there are other themes . i liked the script by kayo and mari hatta based on a story by diane mark - clear and crisp . another writer that came to mind while watching the movie was hemmingway . my only problem with the story was that i did not find the bad character credible . he was written as too much of a caricature . a more realistic evil would have improved the tale . it may have been that director kayo hatta just wanted to paint his canvas in nothing but stark black and white images . one final aspect of the movie worth mentioning is the nighttime cinematography ( claudio rocha ) , set decoration , and sound effects . the daytime images of the burning cane fields was also striking . the sometimes dramatic and sometimes serene music ( cliff eidelman ) throughout the movie provided just the appropriate ambiance . there is not much of a plot to picture bride . it does provide nice imagery and low key but well done acting . it is not a terrific show , but a peaceful diversion . picture bride runs 1 : 41 including 10 minutes of extremely long credits that acknowledge 18 historical advisors ( 16 of whom were dr . this or that ) and even thanks the shoe repairmen . it is rated pg-13 for reasons that escape me . this is a pg movie bordering on a g rating . if you think your kids would be interested in the story , it would be fine to take them . i recommend this little movie to you and award it * * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . reviewed written on : may 9 , 1995 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
a little princess is at least the third film version of the book of the same name by frances hodgson burnett . you may have seen the last film version of one of burnett's books a couple of years ago - the delightful the secret garden . sara crewe , played by first time movie actress liesel matthews , is a girl of i guess about the age of 10 . sara's life soon takes a dramatic turn for the worse and that sets up the drama in the movie as well as the completely predictable ending . there is much to admire in this children's movie . the acting is pretty good . liesel matthews gives a straight forward and simple rendition of sara . she never tries to manipulate your emotions ; she just smiles a lot and delivers her lines . i am not sure if she has much talent or not , but she is sweet . vanessa lee chester was given a small part and her acting consisted mainly of a lot nice smiling . the best performance in the movie is that of the actress playing the villain , eleanor bron - an easy person to hate . liam cunningham gives a lifeless performance as the father . i wished the director ( alfonso cuaron ) had kicked him in the pants a few times to get a little more energy out of him or even better had cast someone stronger . the indian manservant who almost never spoke and whose name i did not catch was extremely effective . powerful eyes . the real reason to see the show is for the magic of the images . the set decoration by robert w . welch gave us golden leaves for the hopeful scenes and gray snow for the sad . the street scenes of new york were wonderful and reminiscent of the age of innocence . the cinematography by emmanuel lubezki , who should have won an academy award for like water for chocolate , was worthy of renoir . the best scene in the show had to be the one where the white snow burst into sara's room like swirling white confetti and she danced in it in slow motion . what was wrong with the show , other than the actors being too low key and relying too much on smiles to carry the day , was the script by elizabeth chandler and richard lagravenese . for some reason , they felt obliged to add overly dark , sinister , and scary parts to a movie that had a fine evil villain already in eleanor bron . a movie that gets and flaunts his g rating needs not to be one that can so easily and so needlessly scare small children . even jeffrey , my 6 year old , got scared by it . let me give a few examples . why have scene after scene of realistic battle carnage ? why have a frightening monster with numerous heads that lash out biting at the screen as if they are about to eat every kid in the theater ? if all of these plot devices are necessary , make them less explicit , insist on getting a pg rating and warn parents . very few children have ever seen real battle carnage . end of diatribe . the movie is good nevertheless . my son gave it a thumb sideways . i suspect kids 8 and older may like the movie more , and i suspect girls may be more fond of it than boys . i enjoyed the picture and am awarding it * * 1/2 . i recommend it to you with the above caveats about the violence . ______________________________________________________________________ * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . reviewed written on : may 21 , 1995 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
forget paris is a billy crystal movie in the style of one of woody allen's new york jewish comedies . he is even , briefly , the only singer in the movie . i can not find the cinematographer's name so for all i know , billy was behind the camera as well . if you like the nba , i don't , you can see all your favorite stars in cameos roles through out the movie although the basketball scenes take up less ten percent of the show . the french representatives of the airline do not care about his complaints . the dinner party is actually quite interesting as well . it provided the most humorous single line . by far the funniest sequence has to be all of the fertility clinic scenes . the dialog is uproarious . i had trouble controlling myself i was laughing so hard . i got to worrying that i might be offensive to the rest of the audience i was laughing so loud . all of the above having been said , i am sad to report that the movie was extremely uneven in quality . most of the time , it was like a flywheel that kept spinning but engaged only infrequently . crystal directed the actors so that they were like detached free agents . moreover , the script only allocated them funny material at sporadic intervals . when the scene's should have had strong male bonding , there was none . the chemistry between mickey and ellen was never there so you did not care about them . since the movie tried to be both serious and comedic , having no believable relationships was a real problem . the comedy , when it was present , was excellent . the serious part was non-engaging , dull , and lifeless . it is rated pg-13 for the fertility clinic scene , but overall , it is a mild pg-13 . there is no nudity or violence , albeit a lot of discussion of sex . forget paris , when it worked , made me laugh hard and long so i can easily recommend it to you . on the other hand , the vast majority of the film had no value other than filling in time before the next joke came along , so i am only awarding it only * * 1/2 . ______________________________________________________________________ * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . reviewed written on : may 25 , 1995 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
it answers in the affirmative . the screenplay by richard lagravenese is based on the novel by robert james waller that the entire western world except me has read , reread and cried themselves to sleep with . the movie is the story of this affair . we are talking serious , romantic , long lasting stuff here , not your usual sexual fling that hollywood is so fond of . most of the plot is predicable after the initial setup and that is okay . the point is not to guess the next plot twist , but to identify with the characters and vicariously live their romance and have that illicit fling you subconsciously always wanted . i thought the plot outline was wonderful , but i found the writing pretty leaden most of the time with sporadic poetic or more lively parts . i think i would have hated the novel , but maybe not . the outdoor scenes were easy to make picture card perfect and serene . wonderful , radiant glows filled the house . watching it was like drinking a warm cup of earl grey tea . it filled your body with contentment . the directing ( clint eastwood ) and the editing is of the slow and dreamy school of movie making . lots of silence or throw away dialog so that the characters can just sit around and stare romantically into each other's eyes . the pacing found me checking my watch frequently . i would not recommend the late showing , you may fall asleep in the slow parts . there are several precious scenes in the show . there is a romantic walk after dark that has a great mood to it . the chirping crickets really add to the ambiance . as a contrast , the scene in the local coffee shop is quite an eye opener and nicely done . the acting by eastwood is the best in the movie . he plays a more quiet and sensitive character than i have ever seen him play before . her accent was unnecessary and a major detraction . it was a parody of sophie's choice , but with a different european accent , except they both sounded the same . whereas eastwood's performance was convincing , i did not buy streep's . all this notwithstanding , you can count on her getting an academy award nomination for it . for a much better performance by streep having an affair , see faling in love . in it , she has genuine chemistry with robert de niro and does not use her one-size-fits-all european accent . the minor characters were good . better editing would have vastly increased my enjoyment as would having streep lose that fake accent . the movie is rated pg-13 for subtle lovemaking . it is fine for teenagers and probably kids 10 and up . for many special scenes , i give the picture a mild thumbs up regardless of its irritations , and i award it * * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . reviewed written on : june 2 , 1995 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
is this the future ? she knows no one since she rarely speaks to anyone . the net is an interesting show with many things going for it . first and foremost is sandra bullock , who was so great in speed and while you were sleeping , and is so here as well . the casting of her was perfect . i know people like angela who are slowly losing all social graces , spending all of their time on the computer in their offices or homes , and seem almost taken aback when spoken to as if to say you can't speak to me . a mild suspension of disbelief is all that is necessary to follow the technology in the story . don't look too close or you will see the wizard behind the curtain . go with the flow and believe . one of the most inaccurate parts was actually the most fun . i liked seeing a visual virus so that the data melts in front of your eyes much like a real virus might attack human flesh . as someone who worked at apple on the precursor to the mac , the lisa , and someone who stills uses a mac at home and at work , this made me smile . the plot is fun to follow even in its most predictable parts . the script by john d . brancato and michael ferris creates a highly interesting story full of technobabble . where it falls down is in the depiction of the villain . he is too suave and not sufficiently scary . also , angela is painted into such corners with nowhere to turn , that the plot frequently has nowhere to go . the director ( irwin winkler ) should have had angela show more emotion if they didn't give her more possible exits or people to turn to . i think having a set of good cops that she was trying to link up with would have improved the script . the net runs 1 : 58 , but does not feel that long . the pacing by editor richard halsey is good . the movie is rated pg-13 for a little bit of profanity and non-gory violence . it would be fine for kids over say 9 . i recommend the movie to you as a nice little thriller , and i award it * * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
although crude , this reoccurring scene manages to be funny every time . williams is hilarious . he mispronounces every term possible and manages to keep the audience in stitches with every joke . the director of the movie , chris columbus , has done many good movies , but my personal favorites of his are mrs . in nine months , i am sad to report , he delivers a highly uneven movie . sometimes the jokes work and other times , they are quite tedious . the script , also by chris columbus , is based on a french movie of the same name . columbus's script oscillated between great humor and mean spiritedness . the script did shine in parts . it was fresh , fast paced , and enormously funny . for an inside joke , watch what is on the movie marquee when they race past it in one of the scenes . finally , if you see the picture , stay through the credits , and you will get to see the baby pictures of all of the stars . several of the characters were so obnoxious that every time they were on the screen you wanted to stare at your feet . the entire dwyer family was in that category . marty dwyer was played by tom arnold at his absolute worst , and gail dwyer was acted by joan cusack who gave a miserable performance . the dwyer children could be poster kids for planned parenthood . in addition to the excellent acting of williams , i thought grant and moore were both quite good and believable . everyone knows grant's work , but people may not be familiar with moore's . the scenes not involving the dwyer family were well paced . all traces of the dwyer family should have been obliterated . i give a mild thumbs up to nine months nevertheless . the two lead characters plus williams were worth going to see . i award the movie * * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
babe is a talking animals picture . now , don't touch that dial ! don't give up before it has a chance to work its charms on you . i need to point out that the plot of this movie has a striking resemblance to the recent major critical bomb called gordy , but this is not that movie . moreover , although it starts slow , babe's inherent sweetness will hook you . it is a hard movie not to like if you do not give up the ghost in the beginning . they are not amused . be warned , seriously , that many kids may leave this movie wanting to become vegetarians . the movie consists of the twists and turns of her life as future bacon vs . a sheep dog athlete . the acting by cromwell is straight out of grant wood's " american gothic " except here the farm looks english , although it was actually filmed in new south wales in australia . cromwell gives a monotonic and yet interesting performance at the same time . a more animated and better job is done by szubanski . the special effects are realistic and the voices of the animals are well cast . the cinematography is the best part of the movie . sometimes it is so dramatic you think you are watching tara in gone with the wind . the music score performed by the victorian philharmonic orchestra is equally dramatic with loud horns and winds playing in key scenes . the script is by mad max writer george miller , and it is quite funny in parts . it starts slow , but don't walk out or give up . it will work its magic on you . it is an extremely well crafted show , especially for its genre . it is correctly rated g . there is no sex , nudity , violence , smoking , drinking , or cuss words . one animal used the word " butt " once and my son went wild with laughter . finally , one minor animal does die , but it is handled well . i think any aged kid could see babe , and i recommend it for them as well as the young at heart of any age . jeffrey ( age 6 ) got a little scared in a few parts as he frequently does , but loved the show overall and gave it a double thumbs up . this is a good family film . it gets * * 1/2 in my book . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . reviewed written on : august 4 , 1995 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
unzipped is a documentary by first time director douglas keeve . in short , the movie is a hoot and a lot of fun . the naturally hilarious antics of mizrahi save the movie no matter how amateurish the production . the movie is full of uproarious dialog . he muses that " all i want to do is fur pants , but i know that if do them , i will be stoned off of fifth avenue . " watching the preparation for the fashion show we get to see the models interviewing for positions . i don't think he hired her , but it is not clear . cindy crawford has one of the better lines . my pores are not that small . " mainly what works in the show is the dialog and the mannerisms , but there is one special scene that has neither . the ugly snow is a apt metaphor for his emotions and the cinematography captures it perfectly . he asks his models if they would mind changing clothes behind the scrim so that the audience could see them . most models agree , but some reject the proposal . coming back to the poor quality of the documentary , it is as much of a mess as is mizrahi's hair . just as we learn in the movie , that mizrahi has a stylist that works hard to give him just the right messy look , so it is clear that keeve likes having a movie that makes you feel sure that you could do better with your own camcorder . the cinematography by ellen kuras is almost a parody of bad film making . many scenes are so white , they may be scenes of polar bears in siberia for all i know . i am sure kuras shot tons of film and most of it has to be better than what we are shown . although most of the film is in black and white , the few color scenes are in perfect focus and well lit . sometimes the camera is dropped , but hey , why not show these mistakes to the audience too . suffice it to say that the filming and the editing are too cute for words . i kept wanting to scream while watching it . unzipped reminds me of the wonderful british tv show , the house of elliot . they are both about fashion designers who are working extremely hard to be a success and both are high energy shows . finally , the music in unzipped , especially during the runway scenes of the fashion show , is great and full of energy . you want to go see one of these shows yourself and soon . it is not rated , but would probably be pg-13 for a little profanity and models in their underwear . any teenager could see it with no problems . if you feel like a fun show where you can just have a good time , i recommend unzipped to you , and i award it * * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
to die for is the movie that finally proves that nicole kidman can act . she does the best rendition of an airhead that i can remember . although it sometimes get a bit tedious and monotonous , her performance never gets contrived or corny . many scenes follow of both sets of parents being interviewed on an oprah style television talk show . what kind of personality is not important to her , only fame is . as she puts it , " you aren't really anybody in america if you're not on tv . " jane , she whispers to the audience , has " a tiny weight problem you know . " the cinematography ( eric alan ) of about a third of the movie is a documentary style of talking heads and with a handheld camera full of numerous pans and zooms . in a continuing series , we have an excellent performance by janice in her ice-skates talking about larry and about how much she hated suzanne . suzanne then goes on to point out how gorbachev would probably still be in power if had had plastic surgery on his birthmark . in an autobiographical monologue that runs through the whole show , suzanne pontificates about life . she is always upbeat and smiling , and she explains that " it's nice to live in a country where life , liberty , and other stuff , stand for something . " coming so close to the conclusion of the farcical simpson circus , some viewers may find this part tragic rather than comical . the script by buck henry and gus van sant jr . and based on the novel by joyce maynard is filled with scenes so hilarious that i had almost uncontrollable laughter . that is the good news . the bad is that there are wastelands of dead time between the laughs . the problem with the non-funny parts is that the writers have not created characters that you care about so that no matter how great kidman's acting is and no matter how hard you laughed ten minutes ago , you don't care if the characters get used , abused , or shot . dillon , for example , doesn't have much of a part , and he certainly does nothing memorable with it . as a director , i find gus van sant jr . 's style too eclectic for my taste . this is not surprising since his last film was that major bomb , even cowgirls get the blues . nevertheless , i do like to die for . they do a wonderful job of making suzanne into an extremely made up woman in very brief miniskirts and yet they never go over the line and overdo it . the pushed her look to the absolute limit , but never made her look sleazy . to die for runs 1 : 40 , and i think the editors ( jeffrey arsenault and curtiss clayton ) should have left a few more entire scenes on the cutting room floor so that the meantime to laugher was much smaller . the movie is rated r for sex , understated violence , some profanity , and about one second of nudity from a far distance . it is a soft r , and i would see no problem in teenagers seeing the show . there were certainly many in the audience where i was . i give to die for a thumbs up for kidman's performance , for interesting docudrama style cinematography , and for some huge laughs , and i award it * * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . reviewed written on : october 6 , 1995 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
a run of the country starts off as a little , light , slice of life movie , but by the end develops into full blown tragedy . his costumes and make up are reminiscent of a beggar in a dickens play . this character is badly written ( shane connaughton ) and poorly acted . without him the movie would have been much stronger . its been done a thousand times before and connaughton's writing provides nothing fresh . eventually , yates starts to provide focus and the movie comes into its own after meandering for about 20 minutes with a fairly boring , semi-slapstick tone . i was surprised how quickly my opinion began to change from boredom to being drawn into the story . smurfit is a first time movie actress that has a smile and a sense of inner confidence that mesmerizes her audience . suddenly you care , because you want to be danny . at this point , i thought the movie was going to be a romance . although the romance was wonderful and lasted for quite some time , the film is ultimately a tragedy that may make tears come to your eyes . from the first , where annagh declares that " you know our bodies are just bags of fluid and bones . i don't think we have a long term future on this planet " , you begin to sense an impending doom . there is also a little mystery along the way , but the writer telegraphs his punches so well that most of the audience knows who it is . for me the war part is an unnecessary complication , but i liked almost all of the show . my main criticism , other than the coco character , is that i wish yates had gone for either romance or tragedy , but not both . it was almost like a two part opera where the first act is all sweetness and light and the second all dark and foreboding . nevertheless , i liked both parts . the movie has fairly uninvolving cinematography which is a shame given the material they have to work with . the sound effects editing was especially good . it is rated r for a little violence , some tasteful and beautifully done sex , and some male and female nudity . it is a soft r , and i think it would be fine for teenagers . i recommend the movie to you , and i award it * * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . reviewed written on : october 4 , 1995 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
in fact , the whole reason that blue in the face was made was that the directors and the cast found that they had an extra week on their hands , so hey , they decided to make a fast , improvisational movie with the same sets and some of the same cast . the result is a fun , upbeat movie that is another talk fest just like smoke , but not as serious - think of it as smoke-lite . the writing is credited to the directors , but it feels like the actors were winging it most of the time . the movie is a series of crazy incidents like that . intertwined with the regular movie , there are two different series of interviews , documentary style . one series is done with a cheap camcorder that produces grainy , saturated images . i believe that these interviews were real . that's like the breakfast of champions . " keitel makes you feel good to be alive . his smile is infectious . you want so bad to be there swapping stories . in fact the ultimate message of the film has to be that the brotherhood of mankind transcends all races . many scenes feature actors of one race telling how many people of some other race live in brooklyn . i have only touched on the numerous sketches in blue in the face . it is a fun time at the movies . the costumes ( claudia brown ) are a little more outlandish than smoke since i think she wanted to tease the audience a bit more . it is rated r for a little nudity and a little bad language . personally , i would have given it a pg-13 . it would be fine for any teenager , and perhaps even slightly younger kids . this is a little movie that i am not wild about , but did enjoy , and i can and do recommend it to you . it gets * * 1/2 in my book . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : october 23 , 1995 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
mighty aphrodite is an innovative , funny , but slow woody allen comedy that woody wrote , directed , and stars in . from the very beginning there is no chemistry between the two leads , but the audience is supposed to assume that there once was . what . i don't want to adopt . not with my genes . i have award winning genes . " given how old and unhealthy woody appears in this movie , these lines bear a special poignancy . you have to ask that ? i'm the boss . lenny believes that given their good looks combined with an equal lack of intelligence they are made for each other . linda in her crazy high pitched voice says at one point , " i'm not religious either . both of my folks were episcopalians . " kevin is so dumb he can barely even construct a full sentence . together their iqs would not add up to more two digits . the innovative part of mighty aphrodite is a greek chorus that appears frequently to give lenny advice . for me , the chorus is one of the highlights of the show . it is a fresh approach that is a lot of fun . one of my favorite characters in the movie is cassandra and her best piece of dialog is " i see disaster . i see catastrophe . worse , i see lawyers ! " the problem with mighty aphrodite is that it is like a first grader learning to read . here the dialog is great in pockets , but there are no characters to care about to keep the audience's interest in between humor . there are four or more putative love stories in the movie , but none of them are believable . these problems are mainly with woody's direction and script , but the actors own some of the blame . rapaport is pathetic and delivers a caricature of a dumb boxer . sorvino gave a fairly good performance as an airhead , but nicole kidman in to die for shows how this role can be done much better . the biggest disappointment for me was helena bonham-carter ( from many movies , but my favorite is lady jane ) . instead , most of the show is played only for the cheap laughs . a real opportunity missed . finally , woody is woody , but a tired and sad looking woody . the sets by santo loquasto are pretty outlandish . these brief images form the best scene in the show . the movie is rated pg-13 for extremely explicit references to all kinds of bizarre sexual behavior . there is no nudity or violence . the movie would be probably okay for mature teenagers , but the dialog is laced with pornographic movie quality rhetoric . for a great greek chorus and for a lot of good laughs , i give mighty aphrodite a mild thumbs up , but i was disappointed by it . it had the potential for so much more . it gets * * 1/2 in my book . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : november 10 , 1995 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
ready for the first completely real-time movie since rope ? the screenwriters tell you this and then director john badham carefully choreographs the actors so that the movie itself takes exactly one hour and thirty minutes to get there . the plot is fairly simple . one of the best minor characters is that of a hotel shoe shiner named huey and played by charles dutton . i will not reveal any more details of the movie since working your way through the maze of the plot in real-time is something you should experience yourself . suffice it to say that it is wrapped up nicely although you think it is such a conundrum that there is no reasonable way to end it . moreover , it even has a neat and brief epilogue with one of the key minor characters . here he is low key but quite effective . i was disappointed by christopher walken . usually he dominates any scene he is in with his explosive or potentially explosive behavior . here the director had him under too tight a leash . peter strauss never even attempts acting in the movie . his role could have added to the tension , but strauss's lack of energy only serves to dampen it . my favorite actor in the movie was marsha mason . she was totally believable and brought a lot to a small but crucial role . the script is fun , and the real-time aspects work . the dialog is nothing special however , and most of the characters should have been better written . the cinematography is outstanding on many levels in the way it conveys the hopelessness and the confusion of the main character . in other scenes extreme wide angles are used to show how distorted the world feels to him . nick of time runs , and i do mean runs , a little over an hour and a half . it is rated r for some bad language and some shot 'em up violence , but without much blood . there is no sex or nudity . i think it is a soft r , and i would have no problems with teenagers going . one family in our theater brought in their 3 and 8 year olds , which was just plain stupid - it is not pg-13 material . i recommend the movie to you and give it * * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
if you are like me and have never heard of this painter , you will not only learn about her life , you will also get to see some of her marvelous paintings at the end of the movie during the credits . to me her paintings are like a cross between a renoir and an edward hopper , and i would love to see an exhibition of her work some day . similarly , if you have never read any of the writings of lytton strachey , this is no problem either since the artistic talents of the two protagonists of carrington are of minor importance . the film is about undying love while at the same time attempting to lay waste to the notion of monogamy . a fascinating contrast . unlike the typical love triangle , the relationships in this film form a pointed star of uncountable number of points . although the movie goes on for over twenty years , the make-up by chrissie beveridge was poorly done and the actors and actresses never age . i liked this movie for the dreamy atmosphere it provided . they play a schubert string quintet at one point , and its slow and smooth intonations are an apt metaphor to the happiness that carrington radiates . she keeps remarking how being with lytton makes her so incredibly happy . the sparse dialog by christopher hampton is quite witty . first time director christopher hampton gives the audience a show that drifts along with the easy of a slow stream in summer . even as the love relationships get more complex , the show stays with its simple veneer . unsuccessful attempts at shattering the calm are statements by lytton proclaiming that " there are times when i feel like a character in a farce . " the cinematography by denis lenoir has many scenes of inner peace crafted by filming the english countryside in sunset hues and the inside in the warmth of small rooms with equally small fireplaces casting golden shadows . the characters spend significant amounts of time staring happily at each other . the music by michael nyman fits the mood created by the director perfectly . although the show appears devoid of any morals other than live for the moment , it provides a peaceful diversion . the acting is excellent . emma thompson is always great , and this movie was not exception . she takes a simple and direct approach to the character , and it works . lytton is a bit of conundrum , and pryce exploits this to the fullest . you never quite understand what lytton is thinking , and yet he is such an intriguing and quirky character that you can see why carrington is attracted to him even if he claims to detest the sight of women's bodies . carrington runs too long at 2 : 02 . the movie is rated r for bad language , some sex , brief nudity , and a total lack of morals . only mature teenagers should go and then i would advise discussing it with them thoroughly afterwards . for me , the dreamy mood of the picture and the excellent acting won me over , and i was able to ignore the morals issue . i do recommend carrington to the adventuresome moviegoer , and i give it * * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
traps is an australian film by a very promising first time director , pauline chan . the movie is billed correctly as an erotic thriller . usually when a movie attempts this , it succeeds at one and fails miserably at the other . although audiences may have a hard time envisioning the communists as saviors of simple purity and the french as sadistic nazis , it is not a major problem since the one sided political views of the writers ( robert carter and pauline chan based on the novel " dreamhouse " by kate grenville ) are secondary and easily ignored . as an erotic thriller , it works . the sets by michael philips are just the right gothic blend of realism and surrealism . the audience never knows whether to soak in the beauty of the country ( thanks to the cinematography by kevin haywar ) or be on its guard for some evil lurking around the corner . the wife forms a simple but genuine rapport and empathy for the locals . she seems confused as to why anyone would be fighting anyone there . the other deals with whether anyone will ever make it out alive . both tales work . overall , the picture reminded me of the incredible lightness of being . there are many good scenes . a simple one with a lot of power has the captain volunteering to michael to rub mosquito repellent on louise's shoulders - watch carefully the expressions on everyone's faces , especially louise's . another reason the tension work so well is that the director provides such a feeling of normalcy that is broken periodically by cars running over booby-trapped roads or people shooting at each other in fields . only tuan seems to get it . he tries to tell them , explaining , " here underneath , nothing right , nothing safe . " the acting is all quite good . you felt like she was going to explode at any time and yet she keeps her emotions in check most of the time . she is a beautiful actress who excels at both the erotic and the thriller parts in the movie . i have never seen her act before , but i hope to again . the tension and the images that pauline chan creates in traps made me ready to see her next motion picture as well . although the movie is uneven in parts and its political logic is dubious at best , it does well what it set out to do . traps runs a fast 1 : 36 thanks to crisp editing by nicholas beauman . the movie is in english plus a little french and a little vietnamese with english subtitles . it is correctly rated r for some violence , some nudity , and very explicit and effective sex scenes . i think the movie would be okay for mature teenagers . i recommend traps to you , and i give it * * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
every time i saw the previews for in the name of the father , i wanted to see the show even more since it had some of my favorite movie components : a true story , courtroom drama , detective work , and some of the best acting talent around . sad to say that i only kind of liked this show . this 88% itself was slow and tedious . the acting was good especially by daniel day-lewis although he was not near as good as in the age of innocence . the writer was much more interested in the minutia of prison life than in courtroom scenes or detective work . i don't think so . the scriptwriters and the editor should have given us a lot more courtroom drama and detective work and less retreats about prison life . this is an overly earnest movie about an important subject . it is easy to review the subject rather than the movie . nevertheless , for me , the film only had a few good parts , but these were so outstanding that i give it thumbs up , and rated it * * 1/2 . it is rated r for serious violence . only mature teenagers should see it . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : january 16 , 1994 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
i have mixed feelings about geronimo : an american legend . we had a lot of shots of geronimo staring christ-like into the lens for long periods without moving . wes studi who plays geronimo , and who was great in last of the mohicans , convinces you of geronimo's near godliness . the picture makes you feel how he has been wronged and since he is a warrior , murdering people is the natural thing that all warriors must do . i read an article where wes studi said he felt the movie tried too hard to be politically correct . if you want to see a really good movie about native americans , i recommend dances with wolves . last of the mohicans is also good albeit not in the same league as dances with wolves . so what was right about the show ? excellent performances by all of the actors . especially fascinating was wes studi and jason patric . good minor character roles were played by gene hackman and robert duvall . the cinematography by lloyd ahern was award winning quality with great open space shots and very effective close up shadow shots . given the violence , i am surprised it did not get an r . it would be fine for teenagers . overall , i think the good does outweigh the bad , and i give the show a thumbs up and * * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
i'll do anything is unique in movie history , but i'll save the reason for the end of the review . nolte is usually good and he is here , but nothing special . in every movie , i have ever seen albert brooks in , especially broadcast news , he has been nothing less than terrific . in this movie he is okay , but nothing more . to be honest , his part was not well written - too timid or something - so i think he did good as he could . the best part is the child's . she is really cute , and i hope to see her again . the worst part was the script by james l . brooks . it just does not make you care enough about the characters yet all are potentially quite interesting . here he is too timid with his cast as if he is afraid to open up and take a few risks . what is unique about this movie ? it was originally a musical but at the screenings , people hated the songs , but liked the movie . i did find myself unsuccessfully looking for where the musical numbers must have been . i'll do anything runs too long at 1 : 56 . with the missing songs this movie would have gone on forever . it is rated pg-13 , but is pretty harmless show . some movies are great in places and awful in others . i'll do anything on the other hand is extremely uniform albeit highly forgettable . i rated at a constant * * 1/2 and give it a thumbs up if you are looking for a pleasant movie that never taxes your brain . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
shanghai triad is a technical tour de force by the great chinese director zhang yimou ( red sorghum , ju dou , raise the red lantern , the story of qiu ju , and his greatest of all and the number two on my best of 1994 list , to live ) . sad to say that , although shanghai triad is certainly worth seeing , it is one of his lessor films . unlike to live which came alive in the characterizations , shanghai triad focuses its tremendous creative energy on images , nostalgia , cinematography , and music . in fact , it has so much music that one could almost classify it as a musical . the movie is mainly about the lifestyles of chinese gangsters , but their warfare forms an important subplot . in a minor role liu tang as uncle liu gives the best performance in the movie . men's business , no matter how small , is important , " so do not disturb the boss while he is engaged in business of any kind . gong li is stunning in the film and her voice in the many musical numbers is like honey . gong li is a great actress , but she did not give her usual energy to this picture . when wang tries to act , he shows that he needs more acting lessons and should stick to expressions for now . just when you think you have him figured out , you don't . the marvelous cinematography ( lu yue ) is full of the city filmed in a hazy dark sepia . this is contrasted with the shots of the bright glistening red sequins on xiao jinbao's gowns . the entire picture's filming is extremely nostalgic . many of the moving shots are evocative of a top notch still photographer . they are so good i half expected them to be selling stills from the movie in the lobby after the show . i loved all of the songs , but the theme music is the best part . it was played again and again using different instruments and sometimes it was hummed . it is still reverberates around in my head . although most of the show is a mood piece , the action in the last part finally gets believable and the tension is heightened . here the show finally comes into its own and delivers on some of its promise . most of the movie however is merely an exercise in style albeit one well worth watching . shanghai triad runs too long at 1 : 49 and many scenes , especially those on the island , should have been deleted or at least abbreviated by editor yuan du . the movie is in mandarin with english subtitles except for all the ending credits which for some reason are totally untranslated - good thing i have the web to find the missing credits i need . the move is rated r for a half dozen uses of the f-word , some violence , a little sex , but no nudity . it is a fairly soft r and the movie would be fine for a teenager of any level of maturity . although i was disappointed by the movie and expected much more , i did like it and do recommend it , and i give it * * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : december 27 , 1995 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
it is a movie on an epic scale about a physician during the restoration . in the opening credits we learn that it is the time in england of the restoration of charles ii's monarchy as well of scientific endeavors and of pleasure . the puritans would have never permitted it . the movie has three distinct but related parts : the court , the quakers , and the plague . each has enough material to be a movie in its own right , but screenwriter rupert walters ( using a novel by rose tremain ) and editor garth craven have conspired to chop this all down to a movie of less than two hours in length . it felt as if it was a three and a half hour movie that the studio had ordered cut to a standard length for marketability . for whatever reason they did it , it makes for a choppy movie that is a delight to the senses , but leaves you wanting more that the movie delivers . as the movie opens we see the hustle and bustle of seventeenth century london . as the camera lens draws closer we see its squalor . it is a sweatshop where they do not even have adequate time to eat , but at least they get to do medical research of a sort . we are to assume that merivel is a great womanizer although to this point the movie has only touched on it , again reinforcing my theory that much film was left on the cutting room floor . the real motivation for seeing restoration is the production itself with sets by eugenio zanetti , costumes by james acheson , and cinematography by oliver stapleton . from the first open shot of london with its golden earth tones and elaborate set reminiscent of a brueghel painting , we sense that this picture will be special . my favorite cinematographic technique in the movie is the way light rushes in windows to bath the occupants of the room as if the light were the hand of god . indeed it was the only thing expressly forbidden of you . " in the second act , we have merivel among the quakers trying to be a physician again . this is done a bit too realistically for my taste . for some reason , meg ryan attempts a thick irish accent whereas the other people have little noticeable accents . it is quite distracting . we learn many interesting historical tidbits like when a plague strikes a building everyone in it is quarantined whether sick or not , which usually means they will all die . i have just skimmed the surface of this tale . you can learn almost all of the above facts in the marvelous trailer for the movie . in fact the trailer is much better that the film itself . in the trailer the music ( james newton howard ) is heavy and dramatic , the energy level is high , and the images are so strong they have a spirituality . after seeing the trailer i almost expected to see something on the level of the ten commandments . while watching restoration i realized that i wished they would have just put the trailer on an endless loop and let me watch it for two hours . i liked restoration , but i would have much preferred the trailer . the problem with restoration can be summed up in two words , poor direction . the compelling visuals are populated with a bunch of actors actresses plying their trade not viable characters . i found them all interesting , but never did i find them believable . when tragedy strikes in the show , i didn't care . i thought sam neill's performance to be the best of a mediocre lot . this is a shame since the actors and actresses are some of the best . restoration stops way too fast at 1 : 53 . it is rated r for tame ogres , some sex , brief male and female nudity , and way too realistic medieval medical practices . it would be fine for any teenager . it is such an incredible exercise in style that i am glad i saw it so i give it a thumbs up and award it * * 1/2 , but i felt cheated after seeing the trailers and knowing what could have been . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : january 26 , 1996 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
bed of roses is a wonderful fairy tale of a movie , at least the first two thirds of the movie is , which is the movie's major , but not quite fatal flaw . it is not that the last third of the movie is bad , it just does not exist at all ! it is a movie that promises much more than it delivers , and yet it is a touching and romantic fable that lifts your heart before it makes a fast exit for reasons that baffle me . i am glad i saw it , but i wish i could have gotten to know the two lead characters much more . i really care about these two sweet souls . playing a character similar to the wonderful one he played in the much better movie untamed heart , christian slater is lewis farrell . in the straightforward but poetic script by writer and director michael goldenberg , lisa quickly finds out that , you guessed it , lewis sent the flowers . shaken , lisa tells kim that night that " i don't have room in my life for somebody this great . i work for a living . " just when you get thoroughly hooked on this movie , it takes a sharp turn left followed a couple of minute later by a sharp right and then a few minutes later it abruptly ends . i could not figure out if the writer ran out of ideas or what . perhaps test screening audiences did not like the last part so the editor ( jane kurson ) just cut it entirely . for whatever reason , the producers ( michael haley , allan mindel , and denise shaw ) should have demanded the script be finished properly before they released the film . this is an enthralling film transformed into a mediocre one because of this truncation . i suspect the cause is the editing because there were other parts , like her abused childhood , that are hinted at somewhat obliquely and where you are keep waiting for more explanations or flashbacks that never materialize . i think they exist on some cutting room floor . the movie feels more like a great work in progress than a completed film . perhaps not on the level of mahler's tenth , but at least something special that i wish had been fully developed . the acting by masterson and slater is marvelous . she delivers a compelling and complex performance . slater gives a genuinely tender and touching one . in one of many good scenes he takes her to listen to children's stories at the library not because he has kids but because the storyteller is so good . pamela segall takes the minor role as the friend and makes it special . i liked the makeup where they had kim look much prettier than lisa making the audience wonder whether lewis would fall for kim at some point in the show , and if so when . it is rated pg for a couple of bad words . this romance would not offend anyone of any age . there is no sex , nudity , or violence of any kind . there are a few quite effective but simple kisses . nevertheless , this is one very romantic movie . okay , two thirds of a romantic movie . the movie is strong enough that even though they amputated it , i still recommend it , but i am unable to give it more than * * 1/2 because of this travesty . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : february 2 , 1996 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
first , let me confess that i have never read much kafka other than collecting some of his classic quotes ( see appendix ) . but in a world of non-euclidean geometry , everything that seems right isn't . the first has never happened , the second has the side effect that you can always be brought up again for the same charge , and the last means you must spend all of your waking hours making sure that you case never advances . other than kafka's story and maclachlan's acting , the high point is the screen play by harold pinter . pinter has a style most typified by the movie betrayal , of a highly verbal almost shakespearean style that has the actors taking every word very seriously with constant ripostes between each other . the direction , settings , and especially the dramatic brass symphonic music are all good . i give the movie * * 1/2 , and recommend it . i have the true feeling of myself only when i am unbearably unhappy . you are free and that is why you are lost . nope . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : may 6 , 1994 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
there were writers , painters , actors , comedians , and most of all , literary critics . the glue that keeps the film together is black and white footage of dorothy in the 1940s and 1950s . the artists at the round table were sort of the second string of that era . you will recognize the names , but they were not the best . although the image one has of them is discussing kant and nietzsche and of the meaning of life , in fact , the conversations were only of the shallow variety . the banter around the table was nothing more than sarcastic one liners . they had an obsession with being with each other and yet all they could do was issue trite put downs of one another . what makes this show worth seeing is the performance by jennifer jason leigh ( remember her as the bad girl in single white female ? ) . her performance deserves an academy award nomination . you can feel mrs . parker's depression and the utter emptiness of her life . finally , i especially liked the accent , low and raspy , that leigh used . most of the show gets a little tedious and long after a while . do you like hanging around with a bunch of drunks , albeit some brilliant ones ? do you like sharing your evenings with people who are scared of being anything other than shallow ? accurate this all may be , but it was a bit much for me after a while . it is correctly rated r for some low key , natural nudity , massive drunkenness , and one drug usage scene . older and mature teenagers could probably see it if they like . solely on the basis of jennifer jason leigh's performance , i do recommend this movie to you , and i give it * * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : december 27 , 1994 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
tombstone is an interesting movie with fascinating characterizations and a true story . detracting with this is that the director ( george p . cosmatos ) , cinematographer ( william a . fraker ) , writers ( john fusano and kevin jarre ) , and editors ( harvey rosenstock , roberto silvi , and frank j . urioste ) made it like a new age western or a modern western opera without singing . first , the good news . holiday by val kilmer were wonderful . everything they said and even just their facial expressions were interesting . unless you are a real western history buff , you probably do not know the story , and it is fascinating . how about dialog like " are you going to just stand there and bleed or you going to do something ? " many of the shooting scenes were at night with more lightning that i have seen in my entire life . it had a constant strobe effect . dramatic violins were everywhere as were kettle drums , hence my claim that this was an opera without singing . tombstone runs overly long at 2 : 10 . being a typical bloody western it gets an r rating . the movie would be fine for teenagers . i had a nice evening at the movies , so i give this flick * * 1/2 and a thumbs up . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : january 8 , 1994 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
tombstone is an interesting movie with fascinating characterizations and a true story . detracting with this is that the director ( george p . cosmatos ) , cinematographer ( william a . fraker ) , writers ( john fusano and kevin jarre ) , and editors ( harvey rosenstock , roberto silvi , and frank j . urioste ) made it like a new age western or a modern western opera without singing . first , the good news . holiday by val kilmer were wonderful . everything they said and even just their facial expressions were interesting . unless you are a real western history buff , you probably do not know the story , and it is fascinating . how about dialog like " are you going to just stand there and bleed or you going to do something ? " many of the shooting scenes were at night with more lightning that i have seen in my entire life . it had a constant strobe effect . dramatic violins were everywhere as were kettle drums , hence my claim that this was an opera without singing . tombstone runs overly long at 2 : 10 . being a typical bloody western it gets an r rating . the movie would be fine for teenagers . i had a nice evening at the movies , so i give this flick * * 1/2 and a thumbs up . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : january 8 , 1994 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
since it got two major oscar nominations , best picture and best actor ( massimo troisi ) , i decided to go back and see it all no matter how unpromising it seemed in the beginning . in short , i am glad i did , but i do not think the film is oscar caliber . i found the postman to be an extremely slow , but heart warming little picture . in a touching series of scenes , pablo attempts to teach metaphors to mario , but mario is sure that the concept is too difficult . he plays it with her without speaking , but loses since he spends most of the time staring at her . pablo warns mario about it saying , " even the most sublime ideas sound ridiculous if heard too often . " he woes beatrice with lines including , " your laugh is a sudden silvery spoon , " and " your smile spreads like a butterfly . " " so what if we break our chains ? i did not buy the ending of the show . although the conclusion did not detract from the overall effect of the picture , i found it too manipulative . i have no idea why this film was nominated for best picture of the year for 1995 . there were so many that were better , persuasion and toy story just to name two much better ones . and as for massimo troisi getting the best actor nomination , i am even more surprised . an effective , but monochromatic performance and certainly not worth award consideration . the sets by lorenzo baraldi and the cinematography by franco digiacomo create a wonderful atmosphere of a dirt poor but highly picturesque out of the way island . the simple costumes by gianna gissi add to the feeling of prevailing but beautiful poverty . the natural grandeur of the sheer rocky cliffs overlooking the blue ocean seem a natural setting for poetry . finally , my favorite part of the film is the music by luis enriquez bacalov . it is dreamy music full of overtones of a simpler time and place . the postman runs a slow 1 : 56 . i suggest bulking up on coffee as i did , or the film's soporific pacing may put you to sleep . this is a sweet little life affirming movie , but it moves at a glacial speed . the film is rated pg for no reason whatsoever . there is no sex , nudity , violence , bad words , or anything to offend anyone of any age . a two year old could see this film . i give the movie a thumbs up and award it * * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
whereas there are good movies for teenagers and adults opening almost every week , young kids have much less from which to choose . most weeks bring nothing new and when they do , the movies frequently are written assuming the kids are morons , hence any script , no matter how stupid , will suffice to attract the children to the show . this was one of those weeks when a kids' movie with some intelligence had its debut . the plot is nothing more than a recycled version of the first one , but hey , it is still funny and there are many great lines . chance says , " they treat us pretty good here . three meals a day and all the smelly sneakers you can eat . " right away you see that , hands down , the best part of the show is the script by chris hauty . the animals , other than chance who is great , are not very emotive and frequently their expressions seem to have little to do with the words they speak but to which they do not move their lips . the directing ( david r . ellis ) is pretty lame , but the script and the voices save the day and create a delightful movie for children and the adults who are fortunate enough to get to join them . no one seems too concerned about going home , and the humans hardly ever appear in the film . never mind , as an animals roam around a lot movie , it works , again , thanks solely to the dialog . beauty and brains . i never cease to amaze myself . " although the show is sweet , it is highly uneven . there are long passages with a bunch of animals just chatting . this part is monotonous and needed stronger editing by peter e . berger and michael a . stevenson . when we have sharp ripostes between chance and sassy , with fast cuts and a little action , the movie comes into its own . we know where we are every step of the way . " finally , chance is at his best in the ending which wraps up the movie nicely . homeward bound ii runs only 1 : 29 and would have been a stronger movie with some of the slow scenes deleted . it is correctly rated g . there is no sex , bad language or human nudity of any kind . there is a little violence in that the dogs do snarl at each other and kind of wrestle around a bit plus there is a couple of scenes where it looks briefly like there is the potential for harm . this is all handled low key , and the movie did not seem to scare anyone in the theater . i missed the sense of purpose and direction that homeward bound had , but the sequel is worth seeing for the continuing funny dialog that will delight people of all ages . it is not a particularly fast paced movie , so may bore some kids . i recommend the movie to you and give it * * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
flirting with disaster is a movie that constants flirts with disaster . it plays like a low budget experimental comedy where screenwriter and director david o . russell throws everything he can into the script as if this is his only chance ever to make a comedy . that film is a serious , moving , and shockingly frank look at incest , and is also a much better movie . some people incorrectly labelled that picture as a comedy . it wasn't . all of the above notwithstanding , flirting with disaster had enough big laughs that i did like it . when people ask me how i manage to take such great photographs , i tell them my secret is composition and quantity . russell used my later technique . if you put enough jokes in and you are raunchy and experimental enough , some are bound to hit the mark . a lot of the movie is in bad taste ; some jokes fall like a stone ; but , the ones that work are great . there are other examples that are hard to describe in a g rated review of an r rated movie . aren't we good enough parents ? " all children are forgiven . my favorite scene in the movie is an indescribable sight gag that happens after mel and tina almost get it on at a b & b where they are all staying . poor mary tyler moore is pathetic in the film and looks like she is suffering from extreme sleep depravation . george seagal is not much better , and they are both embarrassments . the other actors and actresses do fine , but nothing special . the relative success of the picture rises and falls with the undulations of the script . with lines like lily tomlin's , " we love you very much . if you were jeffrey dahlmer , we would still love you " or tony's , " do you mind if i take a look at your armpits ? i think armpits are the prettiest part of a woman's body , " the audience is in stitches . i am sad to report that a lot of the movie had me with my mouth hanging open going " huh ? " as many attempts were duds . there is no nudity or violence . i think the film would be okay for most teenagers , but no one younger . i hate to say it , but many parents in my audience brought kids from ages 4-10 years old . this bizarre show is not for everyone , but i liked it and am glad i saw it . if you like quirky sexual comedies , i recommend this film ; otherwise , don't waste your time . if you do go , stay through all of the credits and watch the even more bizarre outtakes . i give this funny , but highly uneven film * * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
sgt . bilko is a highly forgettable , but quite funny remake of the classic phil silvers tv show from the mid 50s known variously as " the phil silvers show " , " you'll never get rich " , and simply " sergeant bilko . " i was a nine year old when the series started and was a fan of it . only steve martin and possibly robin williams have the comedic strength to revive the show . here it is steve martin playing the role that is both a homage to phil silvers and yet is a fresh rendition as well . in short , this is not martin at his best and the movie has a lot of gags , especially sight gags , that don't work , but the movie does has a lot of belly laughs in it . a sure fire audience pleaser even if not exactly blockbuster material . i think this movie has some of the worst trailers for it that i have seen in quite a while , but i saw them so often that this slapstick comedy began to grow on me a bit before i ever walked into the theater . the movie has exactly three things going for it and no more . the acting by martin , that of straight man dan aykroyd playing sgt . the rest of the acting is fairly pedestrian but phil hartman as major thorn as well as his two accountant sidekicks are awful . most of the technical aspects of the show like the cinematography , music , and sets are acceptable , but nothing special . his philosophy about gambling is , " i like a sporting event in which i know the outcome ahead of time . it's more organized . " he does not run a very tight ship . it's 10am . in the funniest part of the show , sgt . the outcome is hilarious . bilko , and the plot of most of the show is that major thorn tries to prove a case against bilko . bilko is a conniver , but also a whiner . everything that martin does is cute right down to the way he carries himself and his funny little quasi-mocking salute . sgt . bilko runs a quick 1 : 32 thanks to fast paced editing by tony lombardo . i was amazed to find the show was a correctly rated pg one . i expected something much raunchier . there is no sex , nudity , or violence . if they said any bad words , i can not remember them . sgt . bilko is not great art , but i laughed a lot as did the rest of the audience , and i think you will too so i recommend the film and give the picture * * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
the innovative cinematography by axel de roche has the present done in bright primary colors and the flashbacks all in black and white . the sets are interesting in that some of the backgrounds are fake backdrops like you might see used in a play . rather than doing this as some pedantic and morose work , great writer and director michael verhoeven instead does it as a funny , albeit sometimes serious , comedy . in a sentence , the film works . after many twists and turns , the way the story is wrapped up is quite imaginative . the nasty girl is a fast paced movie running only 1 : 32 . it is rated pg-13 for a little violence , a single bad word , and no sex or nudity . the show would be fine for any kid old enough to be interested which i guess would be around 9 or 10 . i liked the film , and if you like bizarre little comedies that take risks , i think you may like it too . i give the film * * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
it is by the director ( giuseppe tornatore ) of the widely acclaimed and oscar-winning cinema paradiso . it is a great little story of a movie talent scout and huckster who scours poor but picturesque sicily enticing the locals with the promise of great riches . from offscreen the talent scout sticks his hand in to pat him on the back and reassure him with a simple , but forceful " very good . " some do it straight , " afterall tomorrow is another day , " whereas other embellish it or localize it . there is one especially funny scene with some old tough guys rehearsing scarlet's lines to each other . i don't want to disappoint you , " but most people he makes feel sure that they will be the one picked to be the next movie star . like a woody allen movie , the first thirty minutes or so of the picture is filled with scores and scores of people doing short screen tests . some people are fun to watch and some are incredibly boring and repetitive which is one of the major downfalls of this format when it is carried on for so long . these scenes needed much stronger editing by massimo quaglia . instead , he keeps too many scenes in and just makes them too short and choppy to conserve time . how he avoids death makes for a fantastic scene . joe is confused and frighten by all of this . one of the major problems with the film is that the script by fabio rinaudo and giuseppe tornatore is too talky . the images and the plot are more than enough to carry the show , yet many scenes have way too much dialog which amount to little . the simpler scenes are by far and away the best . overall , i thought the script was the weakest part of the film and was badly in need of rework . it needed to be much more focused . beata has a simple view of the movies , " i like love stories where everybody kisses and are happy ever after . " lodato is a great , but simple actress who plays her part with great sensuality and feeling . quite a compelling performance . sergio castellitto gives a sweet performance , but i thought lodato upstaged him with a smaller role . a long , fanciful , funny , and hopeful part switches to a morose shorter part . i thought the first part worked well , but the writer seemed to run out of energy and ideas toward the end . the first part is imaginative and unique ; the last is pure formula . overall , i thought the plot and the concept were better than the execution . it could and should have been much better , but i certainly enjoyed it , and i hope to see both of the leads again , especially tiziana lodato . the picture is beautifully filmed by dante spinotti with sets of tremendous natural beauty . the sicilian countryside manages to outshine most of the people in joe's screen tests . it is in italian with english subtitles . it is rated r . it has sex , full frontal nudity , bad language , and some violence , but would be fine for any teenager . flaws and all , i liked the film , and i think you will too so i am giving it a thumbs up and awarding it * * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
denise calls up is a claustrophobic , but carefully executed one joke movie . within the strict confines of the show's unusual format , writer and director hal salwen creates a movie that does the most possible given the script's rigid adherence to its design . even given its inherent limitations , it is interesting , unique , and thought provoking . still , i feel i should warn you that its repetition and its circular story may make all but the most dedicated cinema buffs a little dizzy . they like talking , but actual human interaction is too frightening , better to stick to intimate relationships with their phones and their computers . besides homo sapiens , the picture is filled with every type of phone and computer imaginable . all of the phones have call waiting and much of the show consists of a talking to b , who then gets a call from c causing b to put a on hold . c then gets a call from d . you get the idea . sometimes they read while talking on the toilet , but other times they work on their laptops while there . the quick cuts by editor gary sharfin and the tone set by the director make the movie feel highly improvisational . this means some silly lines will be followed by some excellent ones . see . i don't have my schedule . i mean my primary schedule . i'd hate to pencil you in and then find i have a discrepancy . " barbara does not understand it when her romance with jerry doesn't work like she would like and so she sours on him proclaiming , " he was so sweet in the beginning , sending me little love faxes . " a phone is much safer . better to have never actually met someone than be disappointed . these people have long since hung up on life so i am not sure why death is so hard for them to deal with . although the acting is fine , the reason to see this experimental show is to see how long they can keep these characters from ever meeting . will the whole show go on and every room have just a single character ? will anyone come to frank's party or will it be like linda's where everyone promised to come and not a single one showed ? i'm not telling . denise calls up runs just 1 : 21 , but even shorter , it would have been better as the show does wear out its welcome a bit . it is rated pg-13 . there is no violence , no nudity , almost no bad language and the sex is strictly over the phone . the picture is fine for teenagers and probably for some kids a little younger . i give the film a thumbs up and rate it * * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
director kevin hooks's fled is a fast action movie that appears to be about two convicts on the lam , but is actually a highly contrived and ridiculous conspiracy on top of conspiracy plot . this is one of the those movies that requires you to check your brain in the lobby . don't even try to count the implausibilities in preston whitmore's script . what saves the film is two fine pieces of acting by its stars , laurence fishburne as piper and stephen baldwin as luke dodge plus the excellent performance by wil patton as the southern good old boy and smartest cop of all matthew gibson . fled is needlessly violent as well , but all of this notwithstanding , i liked the show as did the audience . a fast paced bit of entertainment that will make you laugh , sometimes when you are not supposed to , and will pump up your adrenaline . it seems there are big conspiracies brewing , and schiller , among others , is involved . the show is quite funny . one small thing that is fun is that when they get in a jam , one will say to the other , " didn't you see " and then name some movie title as if all knowledge is found in some movie . among movies so referenced were : the godfather , deliverance , the fugitive , and shaft . my favorite character is the wise but unassuming officer gibson , whose accent is so thick you could cut it with a knife . gibson advises schiller , " i think you are just spitting in the wind , and you know what they say about spitting in the wind . it may blow back in your face . " the chemistry between the two leads is quite good . i think laurence fishburne is a great talent , and it showed here . without him , i don't think they would of had a show , but they do have him and so for me it worked . which scene did the audience like the least ? it is so overdone and with such cliches , i . e . , done in front of a roaring fire , that they were laughing at it , and it is not supposed to be funny . let me not dwell on this implausibility thing , and rather than get into the intricate conspiracy maze , let me give two small examples . also , why is all the key data stored one little floppy and without any duplicate ? i could go on , but i will not . i was able to put my brain in neutral so perhaps you will be able to as well , and this stuff not bother you . fled runs a little over an hour and a half . it will certainly be an r for sex , nudity , and most of all gory violence of the type where many people die with large bullet holes and blood spurting everywhere . it would be probably be okay for teenagers if they are mature . i hated the story , but i had a good time , laughed some , and liked the acting , except for pathetic overacting by schiller and the whole cuban mafia crowd , so i am giving it a thumbs up and rating it * * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
disney made a cartoon version of the story in 1967 , and famous director zoltan korda made a live action film of it during the war ( 1942 ) . in this 1984 disney version , stephen sommers is the director and the screenwriter . he says of it the jungle , " the jungle speaks to me because i know how to listen . " lee's acting is a bit too serious for my taste , but he tries hard . whereas the frightening scenes may scare off the youngest kids , the love part may lose the slightly older ones as well . at least their interest may wane . this movie version of the story is true to the book which means that it will scare younger kids . we have scenes of tigers attacking and killing people . people die realistic deaths in quicksand . the death scenes , while not overdone , are nevertheless realistic . he informed me after the show that he thought the movie would be fine for kids 7 1/2 and over , thus cutting himself out of the appropriate age group for the show . apparently it troubled him more than i realized . the technical aspects of the film are impressive . the cinematography is lovely . the forest and most of the picture is filmed in bright colors with a predominate jungle green complimented by earth tones of brown . in one of the most impressive pieces of cinematography we have a scene of an indian town at night . the best acting is by all of the animals . of these , i thought the monkeys were the best . certainly shere khan , the tiger , is the most frightening . the jungle book runs too long for a kids' movie at 1 : 51 . the film is rated pg . do not let any child under 5 see it . as far as older kids , i still think those 7 and above generally will be able to handle it . certainly by age 9 , there will be no problems . jeffrey gives it a partial thumbs up as he does not like being scared at all by a picture . i give it a thumbs up and award it * * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : may 25 , 1996 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
i read that it is a sequel to the year my voice broke , which i have not seen , but there were no references to it in this film which effectively stands alone . the last part of the picture is an honest and insightful consideration of adolescent sex . up until the last part , the picture is pure formula and reminded me of a dozen other films . the characters are pleasant enough , but very familiar . if you rent the tape , hang in there because in the last twenty minutes or so the film comes into its own and has something fresh to say . this mass mooning is pretty sophomoric film making . from there the script by the director john duigan takes the standard turns . little happens that you haven't seen before , and the acting , although good , is nothing special . as one of many ways the script just follows the standard formula , all of the teachers are mean and strict . the only question is the degree . these are issues that teenagers have to grapple with today , and this film treats them tenderly and honestly . after having no meaningful music in most of the film , even the music comes alive in the end . i had a problem with the cinematography . the nighttime sequences across the lake are filmed in luminescent darkness so that it looked like a scene from the arabian nights . whereas this worked , most of the film was in sepia tones of the interiors . this looked more dreary than nostalgic which was i think was the intention of the tones . flirting runs a little long at 1 : 39 given the repetitive material . it is in australian english without subtitles . i have seen a lot of non-american english shows so i was able to follow it , but it may leave some dazed and confused . the film is rated r . there is brief nudity , a little sex , mild language , and the violence of a boxing match . it is close to pg-13 , and i think the show would be fine for mature kids as young as 11 or 12 . although i still can not figure out how at least one critic had this film on his best of the year's list , i did like it because the formulaic script finally had something to say toward the end . i give the show a mild thumbs up and * * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : may 26 , 1996 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
the film has cruise's usual good acting , some excellent stunts ( actually done by cruise ) , and many effective uses of the tv theme music ( lalo schifrin ) with its heavy beat , but for me the film was a disappointment . although i think the film is worth seeing , much of the script ( willard huyck , gloria katz , david koepp , and robert towne ) is plodding and tedious . this puts them on a big cat and mouse game where it is not clear who are the bad guys , and who are the good until the end . there may or may not be a mole . it's that sort of story . evil seeming , but is he really , kittridge gets lots of overwritten lines like , " if you want to play with the devil , that's fine with me . i just want to make sure you do it in hell . " i have already said that cruise is consistently good in all of his picture including this one . most of the other im actors have a lot of talent , but i didn't see much of it in evidence in this movie . emmanuelle beart is absolutely wonderful in the just about to be released in the us , nelly and monsieur arnaud . emilio estevez specializes in poor performances in terrible movies like the might ducks , but can be good as in repo man ( 1984 ) . only ingeborge dapkunaite have i never seen before . other than tom cruise's excellent acting ability and body , the only reason to see the show are the action sequences . they do not happen that often and some , as in the computer room , are mercilessly slow , but most are fresh and fascinating . here they decide to do it on the super fast french tgv and add enough elements to make it fascinating and unusual . if the script had created characters i cared about , which it didn't , then i would have been more impressed by this scene because i would worry that someone would get hurt . another excellent action sequence has to do with a blown fish tank . technically , the shows a few realistic aspects like the user groups on the internet ( only alt . stuff and sadly not rec . arts . movies . reviews ) and adds on a lot of outlandish technology like a computer console in a sealed room that has an unbelievably complex security system guarding it . suspending disbelief and going along with this was no problem for me . it is close enough to reality , and this is like a james bond film anyway . it is correctly rated pg-13 as there is no sex , no nudity , a little bloody but cartoon level violence , and fairly mild language . it would be fine for kids say 9 and up . i was disappointed by the way the show drags a lot , but the action is good as is cruise so i give it a thumbs up and award it * * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . the film has cruise's usual good acting , some excellent stunts ( actually done by cruise ) , and many effective uses of the tv theme music ( lalo schifrin ) with its heavy beat , but for me the film was a disappointment . although i think the film is worth seeing , much of the script ( willard huyck , gloria katz , david koepp , and robert towne ) is plodding and tedious . this puts them on a big cat and mouse game where it is not clear who are the bad guys , and who are the good until the end . there may or may not be a mole . it's that sort of story . evil seeming , but is he really , kittridge gets lots of overwritten lines like , " if you want to play with the devil , that's fine with me . i just want to make sure you do it in hell . " i have already said that cruise is consistently good in all of his picture including this one . most of the other im actors have a lot of talent , but i didn't see much of it in evidence in this movie . emmanuelle beart is absolutely wonderful in the just about to be released in the us , nelly and monsieur arnaud . emilio estevez specializes in poor performances in terrible movies like the might ducks , but can be good as in repo man ( 1984 ) . only ingeborge dapkunaite have i never seen before . other than tom cruise's excellent acting ability and body , the only reason to see the show are the action sequences . they do not happen that often and some , as in the computer room , are mercilessly slow , but most are fresh and fascinating . here they decide to do it on the super fast french tgv and add enough elements to make it fascinating and unusual . if the script had created characters i cared about , which it didn't , then i would have been more impressed by this scene because i would worry that someone would get hurt . another excellent action sequence has to do with a blown fish tank . technically , the shows a few realistic aspects like the user groups on the internet ( only alt . stuff and sadly not rec . arts . movies . reviews ) and adds on a lot of outlandish technology like a computer console in a sealed room that has an unbelievably complex security system guarding it . suspending disbelief and going along with this was no problem for me . it is close enough to reality , and this is like a james bond film anyway . it is correctly rated pg-13 as there is no sex , no nudity , a little bloody but cartoon level violence , and fairly mild language . it would be fine for kids say 9 and up . i was disappointed by the way the show drags a lot , but the action is good as is cruise so i give it a thumbs up and award it * * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
i saw this troubling and unusual show at the press screening . butterfly kiss is an effective and chilling study of the criminal psychosis of a serial killer . the film is not for the faint of heart . it is a shocking show with a surprising conclusion . before i get into the body of the review , i want to warn potential viewers . although i am giving this film a thumbs up , this is the type of picture that will have some viewers walking out early in disgust claiming the film is sick . if you see the movie and feel that way , i will completely understand . on the other hand , films like henry : portrait of a serial killer , manhunter , seven , and the silence of the lambs that realistically delve into the minds of brutal killers must contain a natural revulsion . sometimes the violence in the show is gratuitous and sometimes not , and it is a fine line the director has to walk . here i felt the acting was excellent and realistic , and the director ( michael winterbottom ) had everything right on the edge without going too far . the plot of the shot is that eunice , played by amanda plummer from pulp fiction , is searching petrol station's convenience stores for her ex-lover judith . plummer delivers an excellent performance reminiscent of james woods . she has so much pent-up energy that you are certain she will ignite at any moment . when eunice says , " i know i'm a bad person , " miriam reassures her with , " don't be daft . there's no such thing as a bad person . " i've done much worse than kill people . " as she explains , " if you never go out , you'll never do no evil . " eunice is like a walking ad for a bondage magazine . the cinematography ( seamus mcgarvey ) of the film captures just the right gray melancholy feel , especially in the exterior scenes . the script by frank cottrell boyce pulls no punches - hard hitting and to the point . it is not rated , but would probably get an r rating rather than an nc-17 , but it is close . there is nudity , sex , and quite gory violence . this picture is not appropriate for teenagers . i recommend the show to people with strong stomachs because the acting is quite good and the story bizarre but interesting . i give it * * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
he also wrote this erratic but nevertheless engrossing film . conceptually the film is more interesting that the realization due to crichton's poor direction , all of this notwithstanding , the film is worth seeing . the show's premise is thought-provoking . what if you could do more at an amusement park than just ride through a pseudo-environment ? what if you could use real guns and kill robots that were completely indistinguishable from real people ? in other words , how about a park where you can enter a fantasy world that for all intents and purposes is a real world ? you have got to admit that the setup for this high concept movie is intriguing . one part i especially like is that there is a subtle way in which robots differ from real humans in their appearance , and it stems from the same problem that great artists have in drawing the human body . i will not revel the difference . as anyone who has seen jurassic park can guess , the park develops a bit of a problem and the robots start misbehaving . imagine one of disney's pirates firing at you with real guns ? a bit more realism than most of us would want . this all sounds much better than it is due mainly to crichton's plodding pacing . the film goes so slow that you find yourself wishing your vcr had one of those double speed modes where you could still hear the voice . other than the equipment differences , notice how they need many people to operate the command center in westworld whereas in jurassic park a single programmer does it all . overall , watching this highly uneven movie is a blend of falling asleep out of boredom when nothing is happening to being fascinated with what is going to happen next . if you like science fiction , you will probably enjoy seeing the movie . be prepared however to be frustrated by its low energy level . westworld runs just 1 : 28 but feels a lot longer . it is correctly rated pg for low key cartoonish violence . it would be fine for any kid 6 and up although they probably need to be 9 or 10 to be interested . i recommend this unusual show to the adventuresome , but don't watch it close to bedtime or you may never be able to see the ending . it is easy to find your eyelids getting heavy in the many slow parts . i give the film * * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
the show tries hard to convince us basquiat could be the van gogh of our time . in one scene in the movie , warhol and basquiat comment on a guy who is urinating on warhol's painting to give it just the right look . if you can get beyond the drug culture aspects , they smoke dope and blow it up their nose in the show , and can ignore the quality of the " art " , the acting is quite good . the artists you meet in the film are a strange lot to say the least . it gives me time to develop . " gosh , i'll guess take two then . unlike jared harris's more remote characterization of andy warhol in i shot andy warhol , here david bowie is great as the legendary pop artist . the irony is that basquiat seems incapable of forming coherent sentences . a nice piece of acting . i wish there had been even more of these scenes . rounding out the cast , we have benicio del toro , christopher walken , jean claude le marre , parker posey , elina lowensohn , paul bartel , courtney love , and tatum o'neal among many others . it looks like half of hollywood wanted a part . although you may not care about the people they play , the acting , as i said earlier , is worth seeing . i timed it at about 1 : 50 . the shorter length would have been better , and we could have stood a few less stars and parts . the film is rated r for drug use and some bad language . there is no sex , nudity , and only one mildly violent scene . it is possible to misinterpret the show's message as graffiti is a way to great riches and drug usage is cool . as an adult , i can see beyond that , but teenagers might not . for that reason , i am recommending that teenagers not see the show . for adults , i give it a marginal thumbs up for the acting and the music . his paintings get a big thumbs down from me , but this is a movie review , not an art review . i award the film * * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
i love documentaries . if i had a bumper sticker on my car , it would probably read " this car breaks for documentaries " or " documentarians do it with realism . " of those practicing their craft today , leni riefenstahl is pretty much retired , michael apted is the best at this . i would suggest that everyone interested at all in film see his 28 up and 35 up . mtv directors and most american newscasts have the five seconds and cut rule . makes for a fast past , but does little to enlighten . both are first time film makers and the results show . nevertheless , this is an interesting and provocative film and worth seeing . if i had a single criticism , it is of the editing by stacia thompson and andreas troeger . lee's choice of subjects are fascinating , but the editors are way too influenced by mtv . lee should have edited the picture herself , and she should have spent more time on the synthetic pleasures part of the movie and less on the peripheral material like cryonics . so what does the documentary show us ? well , it starts mainly in japan with large indoor artificial environments of all types . this is the best part of the film . we see gigantic buildings where people inside are skiing , surfing , golfing , fishing , you name it . the film says people like these better than the real thing because they are guaranteed consistency and perfection - the snow will always be white powder , the waves large , the fish biting , etc . the movie is a three way blend of visits to places of synthetic pleasures , talking heads about technology and computer animations . the first is the most fascinating , and the last the most boring . the expert's views provide as much comical relief as insights . the last quote seem apropos since i saw the movie the day after a ten statewide power outage ! it also reminded me of westworld where they have a little trouble with their artificial environments . see my recent review of it for more details . we have everything from old science fiction movies to women who want to use virtual reality to feel the sexuality of a man to people discussing all of the places on their bodies that have been pierced to a section on cyberporn . lee takes a kitchen sink approach which almost sinks the film . one is french performance artist orlan who tells us , " i gave my body to art . " in a very gory sequence we see her face being cut open so that her doctor can make large puffy areas the size of a sliced peach above her eyes . another low point in the show is a very spaced out guy with rings all over his body and with multicolored hair who informs us , " i definitely think artificial intelligence is happening and will take over . " the film is full of pop science , and provocative choices of experts . the film is not rated , but would be an r . it has nudity , sexual situations , and one gory scene . it would be fine for most teenagers . i recommend this film to you even with its flaws . the good parts are fascinating , and if you don't like a section , all you need do is wait two minutes , and the film will have switched to something else entirely . i give the show * * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
although the film was made almost a decade ago and many of the actors have aged since then , the story seems fresh out of this morning's newspaper . elliott gould stars in it and gives one of the best performances of his career . the only other movie i have seen about northern ireland is the excellent , and better , film cal from 1984 . i am sure there may have been many others , but i do not recall them . at any rate , act of betrayal is too long and too slow , but manages nevertheless is to teach and to mesmerize . if i could just get my hands on the editing table , i could craft a great film by throwing away all of the extraneous material . with a finger poised on the fast forward button , you can attempt to simulate this in your own home . don't give up on the show because the second half features a great performance by gould and turns the show into an excellent thriller . the director lawrence gordon clark goes for the understated approach which works well with the inherently sad material . too bad his sense of pace isn't better . one can be low key and still have proper movement . the acting is all good . you feel exhausted just watching him . the movie is at its best when showing the tedium of the hunt . most of callaghan's job is mundane . also good is the strong but sentimental performance by bryan marshall as the caring cop . the film is a good mixture of gritty and lush cinematography by breffni byme and peter hendry , but the background sound is unrealistic and bothersome , and the music ( bruce smeaton ) is pretty lackluster . overall the story and the acting carry the show . still , too many scenes in the first half are pointless and interminable so that it may drive you nuts watching it . hang in there because the second half is worth it . it is not rated , but would be pg-13 for its subject matter . there is no sex or nudity and the violence is not graphic . the movie would be fine for any kid 10 and up . i recommend the show to you flaws and all and give it * * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
are the triple demands of work , family , and home too much for you lately ? ever find time for yourself ? how often do you get to practice your golf game ? one of you not enough ? how about three more to help you out ? be warned , however , there are a few pitfalls to this wonder cure to your chronic exhaustion . although doug is worried that his clone will be half human and half insect as in the fly , number two is a perfect duplicate with the same memory as doug . as it turns out , two is tougher and harder working than doug which is fine with number one . since number three turns out to have more of doug's gentler and domestic side , this looks pretty ideal . as number one puts it , " i've been working since i was twelve ; it's break time . " four is , well , not exactly perfect . as three puts it , " we made a copy of number two . you know , sometimes the copy isn't as sharp as the original . " that's an understatement . with this great setup and with michael keaton's comedic skills , it would be hard to make a bad movie . multiplicity , while far from a great comedy , did provide this critic with a lot of laughs and made for a thoroughly enjoyable time at the movies . yes , there are several periods devoid of humor , and some of the physical comedy is a bit too outlandish . nevertheless , this is one funny movie . the script by the committee of lowell ganz , mary hale , babaloo mandel , chris miller , and harold ramis comes up more with situations that are funny than with witty dialog . the housing development doug is working on , for example , is proclaimed in the billboard to be vista de nada . there are some gems in the script . number one keeps reminding the others of rule number one , " nobody has sex with my wife but me . " the acting by michael keaton is excellent albeit not as good as some of his performances . in a secondary role , andie macdowell holds her own . her acting gets better and better as the movie unfolds . i admire the talent of both these performers and since they have almost all of the lines in the show , i got to see a lot of them . it is rated pg-13 . there is no sex , nudity , violence , and the language is pretty mild . i suspect the reason it got pg-13 rather than pg is because there are a few sexual situations . the film would be fine for most kids ten and over . i recommend the show and give it * * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : august 15 , 1996 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
the usually reliable actor richard dreyfuss stars in bruce beresford's 1994 movie silent fall . beresford has made some wonderful films . i have never seen one of his pictures that i would not recommend and most are highly memorable . i will never forget his driving miss daisy , crimes of the heart , tender mercies , or one of my personal favorites of his , black robe . dreyfuss is good in silent fall and except for let it ride and always , i have found his work superb . i thought he was unconvincing in always and everyone was awful in let it ride . right away there are many mysteries . ambiguity lurks everywhere . the script by akiva goldsman is intelligent and unpredictable . the performance by dreyfuss and faulkner are marvelous . dreyfuss crafts a character with whom it is easy to empathize . faulkner is equally great as a walking enigma . liv tyler gives a pedestrian performance , but at least better than her vacuous one in stealing beauty . one wonders if she has any acting talent at all . lithgow overacts as is his propensity unless carefully directed . walsh plays the same character he has played many times before and does not change it . the mystery keeps the viewer riveted to the screen . small details like the background noise moving from silence to nature sounds to storms enhance the thriller aspect . i am sad to report that the end turns into a low grade horror film and almost sinks the entire picture . why they did this is beyond me . it is not necessary . at any rate the rest of the show is captivating . it is rated r . there are gory images , violence , some bad language , sexual situations , but no sex or nudity . the show would be fine for any teenager , but not for anyone younger . i recommend the show even with its schlock ending and give it * * 1/2 . with a better quality ending , i would have rated it higher . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
now , i would give the firm 2 1/2 stars . only if you have not read the book , would i recommend the movie ; otherwise , i would say skip it . i found the movie simple and easy to follow . i thought the casting was just about perfect in that everyone in the show reminded me of the characters from the book . although granted there were some changes , i thought overall the movie was a good subset of the book . i thought the movie was well directed and edited . the visuals and the sound were nothing special but were okay . now , why if i loved the book and i thought this was very similar to the book would i give it only a so-so review ? the reason the book was so great was the suspense and the page-turner writing style . after reading the book , there were no surprises . a big ho-hum . if you have not read the book , you might just love this show . if i had not read the book , i think it might have gotten as high as 3 to 3 1/2 stars from me . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
my short review : sure . my expanded review : oliver stone is a great movie director . this is a fine movie from a technical and an acting viewpoint . the problem is that it is all balderdash . so i guess , i do recommend it , but why oh why can't he sprinkle in a little realism . i hate fantasies masquerading as reality . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
if you are looking for an inspiring family film with lots of breathtaking scenery , and you are tired of kids' shows where all of the humor revolves around bathroom jokes and where they are filled with foul language , i have just the picture for you - alaska . this is a simple , but effective film that should delight all but the most cynical . birch's acting skills are barely tapped in the show , but her charm and energy do come through . i hope she gets more parts in the future . i am not a big fan of kids whose acting consists of being hard luck cases . too often , they look like they are just complaining and not acting . i had this problem with kartheiser's performance . it is too one dimensional for me . in another , we have polar bears frolicking on the snow and slipping or , well , more like skiing down a snowy mountain . actually , the cinematography , the bears and the state are three of the stars of the film . watch especially how beautiful the aerial shots are when they circle around the subject . the music by reg powell with its choirs and trumpets add to the majesty of the images . i like the low key humor in the show . dear poachers , this is very bad . i'm telling . " jessie retorts , " it's how they do it on espn . " it's either a polar bear or the whitest dog i've ever seen . " can i keep him ? " the inuits are shown as wise and a bit mystical . granted there were other differences , but still why have the first part in a film with basically an anti-hunting message . at any rate , i consider this only a small problem . this film gives wholesome a good name . it has a dramatic and stirring ending . it is not great cinema , but our whole family certainly enjoyed it . alaska runs a bit long at 1 : 50 . it is rated pg for a couple of dammits . there is no sex , nudity , or violence . in our audience there were lots of quite young kids , and none seemed scared . i recommend the film and give it * * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
after his great success writing , directing , and starring in the low budget flick the brothers mcmullen , edward burns is back . this time he has a hollywood bankrolled film , but he keeps his comedic sights set on his favorite subjects : catholic male angst , infidelity , and most of all , sex - particularly the lack thereof . given that most of the cast leads return , you can excuse the audience if they think the film is the brothers mcmullen part 2 . actually , this time the story is different and the brothers have changed their last name to fitzpatrick . the one-liners are both the strength and the weakness of the film . some work , and some don't . the ones that do are terrific and the main reason to see the picture . unfortunately , one-liners do not a relationship make . the characters are all interesting individually , and yet none are compelling or involving . with life reduced to one-liners , they have no way to develop a chemistry with each other or with the audience . you're never going to make any real money . " francis thinks this is stupid , and chides him with , " romance is great , but i just want to remind you , it don't pay the bills . " you don't even believe in god . " all in all , the show is an enjoyable but shallow little comedy signifying nothing . the one-liners frequently work , and actors are good , but trapped in their material . my favorite is cameron diaz , who has extremely captivating eyes . based on her work in the last supper , she is probably the most talented of the lot . mahoney is a fine , but colorless supporting actor . the others have promise , but the jury is out . here they did an excellent job of reading their jokes and entertaining me , but none of them were convincing . it is rated r solely because they use the f word a few times . this is much tamer show than this year's pg-13 rated the nutty professor which was non-stop foul language , but used every cuss word except the f word . in she's the one , there is no violence , no nudity although there are a lot of missing bras , and no sex although they do talk about it incessantly . it would be fine for any teenager . i give the show a mild thumbs up as it was funny in parts and entertaining , and award it * * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : august 31 , 1996 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
since i recently had the bad luck not to like another scottish working class movie , trainspotting , it was with trepidation that i went to see this one . my review of trainspotting was considered a sacrilege on the internet and created quite a flurry of diatribes . most were along the lines of i was stupid not to like their favorite film or stupid because i got one character mixed up in one scene , and being stupid , i was , a priori , not worthy of publishing the review . so much for the value of contrary opinions . maybe next time , i'll take a poll and see what i supposed to like before composing my review . at any rate , small faces is a frequently frightening , but always moving and poignant show which does get a thumbs up from me . i can not speak for its degree of realism , but the script by billy and gillies mackinnon is certainly convincing . this is a tragic show with an excellent performance by ian robertson as the maclean family's youngest son lex . although he does not say a whole lot in the show , even without speaking robertson can convey a wide emotional range . lex is extremely embarrassed . contrasted against the film's tragic theme is the mother's warmth . she has a great voice , and her soulful gaelic singing at family gatherings is something i would have liked to have heard a lot more of . although the film is in english and not gaelic , the thickness of the scottish accent may cause you to miss some lines . as a lover of the cadence of the melodic scottish tongue , i did not mind since the language has always sounded almost like singing to my ears . like most tragedies , bad luck is an ingredient . although i aimed at a window far away , i did not expect to hit it . well , i did so i had to spent the money i had been saving for my own bb gun to repair the window . many characters in this intimate and sad show seem about to explode . sometimes they do and the result is bloody violence . it is also a high energy song with a heavy beat which goes well with the high energy of the picture . the cinematography by john de borman is fairly straightforward except for the scenes of the desolate wasteland that surrounds the high rise tenements where one of the gangs lives . borman uses sharp color and dark clouds to give it a surreal feeling . very ominous as if the grim reaper is just about to arrive . it is rated r for gory violence and some bad language . this is a serious film that would be fine for serious teenagers . although this show of gang violence is not exactly the sugarcoated one from west side story , it nevertheless deserves to be seen so i recommend it . it is a fairly depressing show so it is not for everyone , but it gets * * 1/2 from me . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
ed's next move is a charming little low budget picture where the actors seem less like actors than people on whom you are getting to eavesdrop . i glad he did for this delightful film had me in constant chuckles . my only big laugh came in the perfect conclusion , but every comedy does not to be a laugh riot like tootsie to be worth seeing . ross is terrific as the classic awkward and shy guy , and his awkwardness mirrors the awkwardness of the script , funny thought it is . i haven't been with four women in the same time zone . " there are several little imaginary vignettes in the film . all of the humor in the show walks the fine line between dialog that you laugh at versus laugh with . for me the script is precious and it works , but the two other reviews i have seen of the show range from a near perfect rating to a near bomb . actually , i can understand both perspectives , but as eddie says , " in some things , the more i analyze them the less clear they become . " don't analyze this film , just kick back and laugh with it . it is an intransitive act . " disgusted , ray informs him that , " if you talk like that to her , it will be a non-existent act . " all three of the principle actors show promise , but ross is the best . his false starts in kissing are classics , but the funny setups provided by the script should get some of the credit . the picture is helped by an excellent score which is quite unusual in a low budget film . at first the music is dominated by jazz pieces composed for the film and played by benny golson . toward the end of the picture , it switches to funny folk songs sung by the san francisco alternative band ed's redeeming qualities . one of their best songs ends with the line , " i wish there were more bad times to see you through . " it is rated r for a few cuss words , one very brief sex scene , and a two swing fist fight . there is no nudity . i think this sweet and upbeat little picture would be fine for all teenagers and probably some slightly younger kids as well . i had fun with the show and recommend it to all except those of you who need a highly polished product . the show gets * * 1/2 from me . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
for those of us like this critic who were teenagers in the 60s , there is no simpler pleasure that a trip down memory lane . i liked the group , but calculated that the beatles were not worth sleeping on the ground . in his directorial and screenwriting debut , tom hanks recreates the energy and charm of that era through the dramatic assent of an american group with many similarities to the beatles's career path . their fame comes from a single song and that is also the title for the picture , that thing you do . just like you need to test a cleaner on a part of a garment to see if it is safe before you apply it everywhere on it , let me suggest a warning label for this film . listen to the song , " that thing you do " before you see the movie . you have probably already heard it in the trailers or in the television advertisements . if you find the song irritating in small doses , do enter the theater playing the movie version . i counted them , and the song is done eleven times in the film . now , i found the song upbeat and quite nice , but if you don't like it , this picture will likely drive you crazy . it is strictly business . i want something upbeat , something snappy . " this part of the show is quite cute and is complete with go-go dancers in halter tops and skin tight polyester pants behind the groups . the costumes by colleen atwood ( little women and philadelphia ) add to the show without overpowering it . similarly , the warm , almost candlelit affect of the cinematography of tak fujimoto ( the silence of the lambs and something wild ) give the picture a heavily nostalgic feel . the show is almost non-stop music . although most of it is the incessant playing of " that thing you do , " the falling stars play other songs as do some jazz groups . the film is a musical feast albeit a highly repetitive one . it all makes for a high energy production and a pleasant time at the movies . watch the credits at the end and count how many of the songs were written by tom hanks . i think it is about a dozen . the acting by the group of unknowns playing the wonders are all nice , but none are particularly noteworthy . for variety , she sometimes changes to an equally meaningless frown . that thing you do is a fun movie of no consequence . other than the theme song it brainwashes you with , the show has nothing memorable . for the time you are there , it will be a completely pleasant experience . you will likely leave the theater feeling happy for no particular reason . i defy you to get that song out of your brain . it is stuck there forever i'm afraid . oh well , it sure beats those songs from cigarette commercials that i have never been able to purge . that thing you do runs a quick 1 : 50 . amazingly , it is correctly rated just pg . there is no sex , nudity , violence , bad language , or drug usage . with most other writers there would have been profanity , and probably a little dope smoking to show how cool the band was and how much like the beatles . i appreciate hanks's restraint . the show will probably only interest kids nine and up , but there is nothing to offend or scare kids of any age . i had nice time so i give the show a thumbs up and award it * * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
so what is the cube root of 1729 . 03 , and what algorithmic short cuts can you employee to arrive at the answer ? do you think you could get the answer quicker than a high speed abacus driver ? these are some of the conundrums that form the side show of infinity . broderick knows exactly what he wants to do as a director and does it . he lovingly crafts an extremely slow moving film . his acting in the title role is dispassionate and unhurried with his emotions carefully kept in check . he is in no hurry to do anything nor get excited about any event . i have an image of broderick in the director's chair coaching his cast to slow down and take each scene with carefully measured paces . the entire show moves with strange rhythm that you will either find so languid you fall asleep or will cast a spell over you and draw you into the quiet world of a scientist's love affair . for some inexplicable reason , i found myself in the latter category , but if you see the film and find it feels like infinity watching it , i will understand . and yet , i found the film soothing as a warm bath and tranquil as a gentle breeze . as a daddy , i have found that fatherly advice sometimes seems to make little sense even when i am the one giving it so this scene hit home . i'll spare you the medical science behind what might or might not have been the problem . i talk to copernicus everyday . " other than convey serenity , the scene has no real purpose . again , somehow , i found these little vignettes charming . any takers ? " but , another muses , " how could we collect ? " many technical aspects of the film are worth mentioning . mary jane fort's costumes capture the look of a nerd in the 40s without overkill . the cinematography by toyomichi kurita is warm and almost hazy , and is nicely complemented by bruce broughton's dreamy music . finally , i must admit a little regret that the movie wasn't a stinker . i could have done a great two line review , " infinity is . " terse and to the point . oh well , i guess i'd rather enjoy a good movie that write a funny review . it is rated pg , and there is no sex , nudity , violence , or bad language . the only reason it got a pg rather than a g is that the topic of realistic love and death by long term illness is not a theme for young children . on the other hand , any kid old enough to want to see it should be able to . i give the show a thumbs up and award it * * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : october 2 , 1996 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
middle age actresses goldie hawn , bette midler , and diane keaton get together for a fun romp . in an age where many actors brood on the set and look angry that they have to come out of the confines of their trailers , here we have some acting pros who have a blast hamming it up together . the result is not a great comedy , but a serviceable one that provides some nice laughs and easy to enjoy entertainment . although some men may tire quickly of the constant male bashing , the characters are all such comedic stereotypes that i never minded . as elise puts it , " if only she'd called me . if only i was listed . " each of the characters is unique and yet strikingly similar . elise is an academy-award winning actress with tons of makeup and monster sized lips . in case you haven't already guessed , every character in the show seems enormously wealthy . you don't need self-esteem . " although this is the three star's movie , the secondary cast has fun too . shelly's brain is in proportion to the rest of svelte figure . brenda greets her with , " look at you . my , my , the bulimia sure has paid off . " too often broad comedies like this dissolve into slapstick . here the humor is mainly in the lines which are the best part of the show . the husbands are complete cads without an ounce of compassion . okay , so it's not exactly a question . all of this is merely the setup . half is not enough for the misery inflicted on them by being dumped for someone " in preschool " as brenda phrases it . most of the picture is about the antics of the club . the show tacks on a mildly serious ending that attempts to cast the show as having a message about spousal abuse . the ending has no place in a comedy and only dulls the comedy and insults the message . don't try to change me in anyway . " this is one of the happiest musical numbers i have seen in the cinema in a long time . what fun these three had doing this film . it is just rated pg since there is no sex , nudity , violence , or bad language . given the theme of the comedy a kid would probably have to be nine or so to appreciate it . younger kids would also be in danger of taking the male bashing too seriously . i give the film a thumbs up and award it * * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : october 2 , 1996 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
when i got my invitation to come to the press screening of ridicule , i had heard nothing about the film . i immediately assumed i was off to another dumb college flick like the disaster glory daze . i had the image of a bunch of neanderthal youngsters insulting each other with bathroom humor . how wrong i was . ridicule is a french satire and costume drama set in the late eighteenth century in last days of french monarchy before the revolution . it is a fairly inaccessible film , but ultimately a rewarding one . once you realize the obtuse story is inconsequential and that the film is strictly a comedy of manners , you can relax and enjoy its subtleties . it is a beautifully filmed show ( thierry arbogast ) that is easy on the eyes . the movie opens with a truly shocking scene that includes male frontal nudity . it is not the nudity itself that is shocking , but what happens . curiously enough , the movie could probably get a pg or pg-13 rating without this scene , but with it in , it is certainly destined for an r if the producers end up submitting it to the mpaa for a rating . at the time of the press screening , it appeared to be as yet unrated . after this surprising scene , the opening credits begin to roll and the audience is already shocked and confused . the confusion stays , but the shock subsides . the show has a simple story , but it is presented with enough subplots and characters to leave the audience baffled for quite some time . as i said earlier , ignore this and wait for the heart of the picture when the show becomes a condemnation of and a ridicule of the aristocracy's obsession with ridicule as a form of witty conversation . the show even concludes with a lavish and totally ridiculous costume ball where the gowns ridicule their wearers . the title ridicule has many meanings and nuance in the show . wit during that period consisted entirely of cleverly worded put-downs , i . e . , ridicule . the dialog by screenwriter remi waterhouse is masterful . bellegarde likes the young man , proclaiming of him , " honesty and wit are so rarely combined . " this is one of many unnecessary complications in the plot . attempt to ignore it . bellegarde guides his young pupil in the fine art of disparagement warning him , don't laugh at your own jokes and " don't laugh with your mouth open . it's too rustic . " the acting is remote and frequently too shallow . perhaps one could argue that it is a good match for the characters , but i found the effect of the direction by patrice leconte to lack involvement . the characters are unsympathetic , and although i found their repartee intriguing , i did not care about any of the characters as real humans . ridicule has three unusual scenes of special merit that are worth mentioning . i do not think i have ever heard the sound of a pistol in slow motion as effectively done as in ridicule . it has a power that overwhelms that of a normal explosion . second , the close-up of a knee rubbing that focused on the goose bumps produced on the woman's skin is one of the most erotic scenes i have witnessed this year . finally , if you ever wondered how the female aristocracy got on all of that pancake make-up back then , this show reveals the secret . ridicule runs 1 : 42 . it is in french with english subtitles . it was not yet rated when i saw it , but it would be an r for the one male nude scene . there is very brief female nudity , a little violence , mild language , and no sex . the show would be fine for any teenager , but the opening is too strong for younger kids . although i found it needlessly confusing , ridicule as an art form was fascinating so i do give the film a thumbs up and award it * * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
the show is a rich tapestry of subjects and contrasting opinions . you know man , that's what they do best . " his parting words to george are , " i wouldn't expect you to drive to a ku klux klan rally . " perhaps the best part of the film is the lack of conclusions . other than the one sided view of republicans , other issues are introduced and pondered , but the film does not attempt to lead the viewer to any particular point of view . the script by reggie rock bythewood seems happy just to be able to bring all of the subjects up . as in most spike lee movies , there is a lot of music and singing . their washington journey starts off full of high energy and fun . there is even the obligatory fistfight , which i could have done without . his come on line is , " i've always heard that dallas has the finest honeys on the planet . " he sees this as natural male behavior whether single or married and argues with his fellow men , " you tell me what men who like women wouldn't want a little something on the side ? " this is film with so many people in it , it is easy to lose track . most of the show is a talkfest heading no place in particular . in a meandering show , toward the finish it takes a dramatic and unexpected turn . this is quite well done , but spike lee then throws on several extra endings which are only redundant . there is one serious problem with the show . the prints of elliot davis's cinematography have major color problems . there are two long sequences , one lasting ten minutes where the color is so far off that you would refuse to pay for the processing if some lab did this to your film . it is my understanding that this is not some problem with just the print that i saw , but that it is a general problem and an artifact of rushing the show to the theaters in time for the march's anniversary . as a film critic , i see a lot of very low budget pictures including ones where everything is financed on the filmmaker's visa card . none of them have had severe color problems like this picture . the studio should be ashamed of themselves for letting it out in this shape . it is rated r for the some bad language . there is no sex , nudity , or violence . the film would be fine for any teenager . i recommend the picture to you and give it * * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
first , let's do a destination check . if you are looking for a sex show , then you've got the wrong movie - swingers isn't it . swingers is a touching little film with an endearing performance by jon favreau as unlucky-at-love mike . favreau , with his strong chin and long sad face that looks like a rock statue , has just the physique to afford him the opportunity to play such roles for maximum empathy . although the other actors in the show are okay , only his acting is compelling . favreau also wrote and co-produced swingers . favreau's script and doug liman's direction are what makes this little tale come alive . " you have to put life into perspective . the proper interval is a subject of much debate among his den of male companions , who approach the topic with ferocity and precision . his male clique's pseudo-sophistication provides most of the humor . there are few guffaws , but lots of nice episodes worthy of many a chuckle . the script is full of little quirky aspects . another nice touch is the way the guys go places in solo car convoys that look for all intents and purposes like a funeral procession . when mike spots a prospect at a bar , trent tells him , " i don't want you to be like the guy in the pg-13 movie where everyone hopes its going to happen . i want you to be like the guy in the rated r movie . " the script is full of references to past films . the show has many well done small touches . hang out with these guys for a while , and you may begin to feel sorry for them . they have lots of theories , but actually not a clue as to how to relate to women . only mike is a whole person , and we grow to care about him thanks to jon favreau's sympathetic and heartfelt performance . the rest of the guys deserve their empty lives . it is rated r solely for the language which i thought fairly tame considering the subject matter . there is no violence , nudity , or sex although there are a lot of discussions about sex . the film would be fine for any teenager interested in the film . i had several good laughs and liked the show enough to recommend it and give it * * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : october 29 , 1996 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
director and writer trevor nunn's ( hedda and lady jane ) twelfth night proves my thesis that even a mediocre film adaptation of one of the bard's plays is well worth savoring . trevor nunn's lady jane was a touching piece of filmmaking , but his twelfth night is fairly inaccessible due to the by-the-numbers acting of most of the principals . the adaptation of the text is quite literal , but the passion and the chemistry is not up to par . according to the film's press kit , twelfth night is " the most popular of all of shakespeare's comedies . " as far as plays go , i don't think i agree , but when it comes to films , i know that kenneth branagh's much ado about nothing is much better than nunn's twelfth night . twelfth night also suffers in comparison to baz luhrmann's recent romeo and juliet which he transformed into an extremely high energy and audacious comedy . twelfth night seems lifeless in comparison . granted twelfth night is a much more traditional rendition , but romeo and juliet is much more involving and fun even if it is a romantic tragedy recast into a comedic farce . twelfth night is a typical shakespearean comedy full of ambiguities and errors about identities and intentions . nothing is quite what it seems to be , but the audience is in on the tricks and mistakes . the script is full of subtleties and complexities that the actors have to flesh out . they not only look alike ; they even make their living as actors where viola dresses up as a male complete with a false mustache just like sebastian's . although she looks like a woman trying to look like a man , it is enough to entertain the passengers . the most interesting and outlandish acting is done by nigel hawthorne ( the madness of king george ) as malvolio . " i am not what i am , " confesses cesario to olivia . the film subtlety examines the characters' bisexuality . most of this is done in knowing looks and quick kisses and is one of few times the movie really comes alive . " why , this is very midsummer's madness , " claims olivia . the problem with the picture is that it isn't . other than hawthorne's performance , it is very tame . the ending is the best part of the play . as olivia says , it is " most wonderful . " technically the film is more successful . the cinematography by clive tickner radiates golden autumnal colors . shaun davey's music is majestic as would befit a much more substantial and serious movie . my favorite little touch is the hats created by john bright for the soldiers . i laughed every time i saw them . with " what you will " meaning roughly " whatever " in today's vernacular . " whatever " is my reaction to this adaptation , but i did enjoy hearing the lilt of shakespearean verse while i soaked in the lush countryside and listened to the music . it is rated pg , but there is no sex , nudity , bad language , or violence other than some fights in jest . it is basically a g film so any kid old enough to be interested could see it . although i wish it had been more involving and lively , i did have a good time so i give it a thumbs up and * * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : october 31 , 1996 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
welcome to " somewhere in the twentieth century . " it seems that our future soon will be heating and air-conditioning ducts . your walls will be filled with them like human intestines . don't cut open the walls or the guts will spill onto the floor . forget those lans , you need pneumatic tubes . and that big monitor on your personal computer , get rid of it too . the future is an old typewriter hooked to a six inch tv screen made to look bigger by putting a magnifying screen in front of it . to be fair , the former was a serious treatment , and the latter a black comedy . very black . i am quite partial to the writings of george orwell , especially his 1984 . the technical aspects of the film are a delightful assault to our senses , but the script by terry gilliam , charles mckeown and tom stoppard is too derivative , and it is a mess . the show is hard to follow and plays as if they are ad-libbing the plot as they go . perhaps this is supposed to be the charm of it , but i think they should have concentrated more on structure and less on the bizarre happenings . actually , one could argue that the show is nothing more than the sets ( norman garwood ) and the costumes ( james acheson ) . he carries a gun and dresses like a ninja warrior . actually some of the customes are so outlandish that they look like rejects from willy wonka and the chocolate factory . the newspaper cartoon character dilbert could certainly understand it . an empty desk is an efficient desk . " i particularly liked the way the film dealt with security . this reminded me of my first job in the silicon valley . the movie is a cornucopia of images and events . the quick reply is , " my own credit card . " restrain is a word with which is not familiar . since this is basically a convoluted remake of 1984 , the eventual torture scene has the torturer threatening with , " don't fight it son . if you hold out too long , you could jeopardize your credit rating . " except for the pie in the face gag , gilliam includes every other possible scene in this farce . although the good outweighs the bad , the film is , nevertheless , one big muddle . it is rated r for a few bloody scenes , threats of torture , and a few expletives . it would be fine for any teenager . the gems in the film make it worth seeing , but it could have been a much stronger film . i give it a thumbs up and * * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
a movie as a star vehicle is an honored tradition . so in 1967 when still fairly new director franco zeffirelli wanted to make his first big hollywood picture , he cast both richard burton and elizabeth taylor . the film was the taming of the shrew and with superstars like that how could he miss . the acting was sure to be good , and the press would cover every antic on the set thus building up the excitement for its release . the quality of the result is debatable , but one thing is certain , burton and taylor clearly have great fun with their acting assignments . the audience at the six weeks shakespeare festival at san jose's camera three seemed to be having a good time as well . in my judgment shakespearean comedies work best when the directors rely on the words for the humor . this is the path that kenneth branagh chose for much ado about nothing . zeffirelli opted instead for slapstick figuring that the play needed to be jazzed up with many sight gags and general physical comedy . moreover , although the words sound authentic , screenwriters suso cecchi d'amico , paul dehn , and franco zeffirelli seem to have modified a fair amount of the bard's text . i must admit that whenever i see the writing of a movie is done by a committee i take that as a bad omen . the picture is filmed by oswald morris ( academy award winner for fiddler on the roof ) and luciano trasatti in a hazy glow as if through a slightly rose tinted lens . to complement this rosy glow , the academy award nominated sets by john decuir , giuseppe mariani , lorenzo mongiardino , and elven webb look like a disney prototype for a renaissanceland . since zeffirelli viewed the play as a romp , these images help establish the spirit of the film . the story is typical for shakespeare -- full of false identities where people are not who they seem to be . taylor spends most of the first part of the film grunting and throwing things . although by the end the slapstick does subside , we have to endure flying tables of dust and other acts i found lacking in much real humor . zeffirelli also had many filthy servants with bad teeth in his attempt to provide increased mirth . sadly that was not as often as it should have been . taylor is a famous yo-yo dieter , but she was just the right size when the movie was filmed -- certainly not svelte but trim and with an overflowing bosom shown to advantage in the clothes of the period . burton too looks the part of a crude but cunning man . petruchio complains that it is , " nothing but sit and sit , and eat and eat ! " for the record , my all time favorite shakespeare movie is zeffirelli's romeo and juliet where he plays it straight . not a bad movie , but there is more potential lost than realized . i enjoyed it enough , but i would not want to see it again . the show appears not to be rated , but it would be a pg for some of the bawdy references . there is no sex , nudity , violence , or modern profanity . the show would be fine for kids of any age , but they would probably have to be at least nine to be interested in it . i give the show thumbs up and award it * * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
[note that followups are directed to rec . arts . movies . current-films and rec . arts . startrek . current only , not to rec . arts . sf . movies . star trek has fans like no other series . trekkies have almost a religious devotion to the series . i still remember the first time i met a master level trekkie . i was at a party where a tv was playing , and she was reciting not some , but all the lines before the characters spoke them . i stared in awe at her . this review is not for her or her likes . this review of star trek : first contact is aimed at the rest of us . she will undoubtedly recognize and appreciate nuances in the picture that mere mortals will miss . first , an admission . i have seen some of the films in the star trek series but not all . some i've liked , and some i haven't . i do not remember any that were bad nor any outstanding . as a non-devotee , i find the films good solid entertainment , but nothing more . this is not meant as a put-down . as a critic , it is a relief not to have every film try to force your emotional systems into a complete meltdown . being able to kick back and just enjoy an old fashion adventure is a welcome respite for my nervous system . " i am a computer cyborg . if they can do that , they will populate the earth with nothing but borgs . this plot device lets much of the movie be filmed in a pine forest . the script by rick berman , brannon braga , and ronald moore never takes itself too seriously . the show is peppered with little bits of humor . costume designers robert blackman and deborah everton chose the outfit of a geriatric hippie for him . cromwell has great fun playing the part of a reluctant legend who would rather drink whiskey than do anything else . this is one of many homages to older movies . the show is full of logical flaws like this . why the whole room full of dancing strangers ? logic , of course , is not the point , and the scene is a colorful diversion . woodard gets to say some of the cornier lines including , " it's my first ray gun , " and " watch your caboose . " she never gets in sync with the rhythm of a science fiction film . brent spiner as data is the most fun to watch . quite a complement to stewart's brooding as the captain . lily makes fun of this with , " captain ahab has to have his whale . " at times , the show takes itself seriously as when picard barks out about the borg battle , " the line has to be drawn here . this far and no farther . " having recently watched sci-fi films from 50's classics to star wars to independence day , i found the special effects by terry frazee in star trek : first contact closer to the hokey 50s' material . watch especially the cheap model they used in the scene where they look up at the enterprise from a telescope on earth . i once read that the reason the studio likes the star trek series is that since they are relatively inexpensive to film , they are always quite profitable . star trek films have a basic appeal , and fancy effects would probably just detract anyway . like an old orchestra , the cast seems to run on auto-pilot so i still have little opinion on his directorial skills . the final question becomes : is there enough here for non-trekkies , and i think the answer is yes . a completely forgettable , but pleasant enough time at the your local bijou . a good popcorn movie . i missed getting the press kit at the screening , but that is about what my watch said . the film is rated pg-13 for cartoonish violence and a few profanities . there is no sex or nudity . the film would be fine for kids , but my guess is that they would need to be 8 or 9 to understand it . i give the picture a thumbs up and rate it * * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
this is not necessarily good in that the major suffering of the film is that it has play stamped all over it . plays are in-person experiences that happen in intimate settings . films take place on a much larger scale . this causes the wit and humor of the play to come across all too often as the pedantic ramblings and sermons of a couple of old men . the beauty of the language does come through , but the net effect of the movie is to make the viewers wish they had gone to the play instead . " lies , not lies -- alternatives . sometimes the truth doesn't quite fit , " argues nat . there are some interesting images in the picture . the long scenes of banter in the park undoubtedly worked well in the play . in the film , they are too long and preachy . more lively editing or camerawork would have helped . i find that matthau's acting frequently annoys me , but in this film i loved his work and that davis's . i empathized with them both . two convincing performances . less effective is the supporting cast . there is nothing wrong with their performances , but they provide little more than window dressing in this two person play . boyd gaines plays a jogging character named danforth who does have a single good line : " truth is i hate running . being immortal takes too much time . " if you like to watch for goofs , you can see the boom appear quite clearly twice in the famous " i'm not rappaport " joke sequence between nat and midge . most movie goers get entertainment , but i got a talky play masquerading as a movie . if you can get past the stilted filming , the film has a message worth hearing . i'm not rappaport runs too long at 2 : 15 because the play was not effectively adapted into a movie . it is rated pg-13 for dope smoking among the geriatric set . there is a little profanity and some violence , but no sex or nudity . the film's attitude about drugs makes me suggest that the film be seen only by kids who are over twelve . i found the filming frustrating , but i liked most of what the movie had to say so i am recommending it and giving it * * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
" not too hot . extra chocolate . this is one of the details we learn in the expanded santa legend known as the santa clause . released by walt disney in time for christmas in 1994 , the santa clause covers much of the same ground as the miracle on 34th street films . although not as good as the others , the santa clause is a charming little picture in its own right . this is all done in a spirit of fun and high adventure . my son's eyes were glowing watching it all . i've got good home owner's insurance . " all the elves are children , which provides a special bond with the young viewers of the movie . we say little people . " the elves are all precious . she has an infectious smile . just looking at her makes you happy for inexplicable reasons . a better summary of the spirit of santa claus , i have not heard . there is a potential problem for this as a family show , and it is the duality of the belief about santa claus . children will have certain assumptions about santa , and this film could be viewed as presenting another set of possibilities . we worried about this a bit , but decided to let our son see it anyway . whether this could prove troubling to other and especially to younger kids remains problematic . the two leads , tim allen and eric lloyd , give solid performances , and john pasquin directs with careful precision . the santa clause is a pleasant little fable . a good choice to kick back and enjoy during the holiday season . the santa clause runs a fast 1 : 37 . it is rated pg for reasons that escape me . there is no sex , nudity , violence or bad language . yes , someone dies , but that happens too in many kid's movies from the wizard of oz to bambi . perhaps death is enough to get a pg , but except for the santa legend already discussed , the film is fine for kids of all ages . jeffrey , age 7 1/2 , said that the movie was " really good . i loved it ! " i recommend this family fare to you and give it * * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
the major revision is that the film goes from being a full fledged movie to a good sitcom episode . the actors are pleasant enough , and there are several nice chuckles , but marshall is content with letting everyone glide along on autopilot . bestowing on holiday audiences a film that teaches good morals and is for the whole family is definitely commendable . and certainly , funny little sitcoms are a popular form of entertainment . it is just that movie goers usually expect a more substantial gift . they want their presents trimmed with more involving characters and with a director with a keener eye for humor . looking on the good side of penny marshall's gift to us , the preacher's wife is a good spirited movie even if it is terminally lightweight . here his performance is reduced to smiling a lot . he gives the least believable and most uninteresting characterization in the film . vance is a much better actor than his work here demonstrates . denzel washington's talent manages to shine through marshall's overly mellow approach . houston's specialty , as illustrated by her work in the bodyguard , is to provide the foundation about which the other stars build the movie . kevin costner provided the interest in the bodyguard , and houston's character was little more than focal point for the story line . the script gives houston some good lines , but she is not convincing . the sets and the costumes for the movie pose a problem . although the meantime between laughs is longer than it should be , the picture does have its moments . this well-worn bible of religious canons has a page with the microsoft windows logo so that the angels can recognize mankind's key secular insignia . the silicon valley audience at the press screening laughed harder at this scene than any other . more typical of the humor is the repartee among the leads . in a christmas movie season that glorifies finding a turboman action figure for your son because " whoever doesn't is going to be a real loser , " the story here comes to a refreshingly different resolution . this concluding aspect of the movie pushed me over the edge into being able to recommend what is otherwise a lame comedy and a lightweight remake . the preacher's wife runs about 1 : 45 i think , but the press kit does not give the time . there are two uses of the word hell as an expletive that push the rating from g to pg . there is no sex , nudity , violence , or other profanity . the movie can be seen by the whole family , but the slowness of the pacing will probably lose the interest of those under eight . i give the film a marginal thumbs up and a rating of * * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
" you want to practice parking ? " successful comedies push the limits of good taste and by that metric , this movie delivers . mona may's costumes for clueless should have gotten an academy award nomination . with wealth like this , the shopping mall becomes every student's mecca . in this environment , being clueless is easily understandable and arguably inevitable . one of my responsibilities as a reviewer is to warn my readers about films . my warning on this one would be do not give up on it . after watching a few minutes of it , your mouth may be hanging open . " this is terrible , " you may thinking to yourself . before you pop the tape out of the vcr and return it to the rental store , hang in there a bit and you may become as enchanted with clueless as was i . with a properly open mind , you can see why the critics gave the film such rave reviews when it opened . i skipped it at the time figuring the film was another dumb teenager flick . big mistake . as you watch the show and laugh at the priceless dialog by writer and director amy heckerling ( from the look who's talking series ) , the story line may sound familiar . if it does , you are not imagining things . after seeing this film , you may want to check out this year's emma if you missed it in the theaters . affluence does have its dangers . clearly , theirs is a much higher claim to fame . her beguiling smile and energy is so infectious that it is impossible not to like her . i suspect there are few actors who could have carried off this part without lapsing into cliches and slapstick . she manages to take absurd material and make it seem somehow plausible . if the classroom scenes appear to be lifted from fast times at ridgemont high , this should come as no surprise since that film was directed by amy heckerling too . derivative though they may be , they are fresh here . cher , you see , does not believe in high school boys since , " searching for a boy in high school is like searching for meaning in a pauly shore movie . " nonplused , she remarks , " i don't get it . did my hair get flat ? did i run into a spot of bad lighting ? " clueless has a witty script with one great line after another and has an exquisitely charming performance by silverstone . what more can you ask for in a comedy ? it is rated pg-13 . there is no sex or nudity , but there is a little profanity . although i wish they had not included the couple of unnecessary drug and drinking scenes , i still think the show should be fine for teenagers . the show is fun and good spirited . i recommend it to you and give it * * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
even if you hate his films ( including edward scissorhands , batman , bettlejuice , ed wood , and james and the giant peach ) , you have to give him credit for originality . with the except of bettlejuice and batman forever , i have liked every film with which he has been associated . although his 1993 the nightmare before christmas is not one of my favorites of his , i am fascinated by it . since i am taking my son with me this week to see the press screening of mars attacks ! , we thought it a good time to rent burton's dark vision of christmas . overwhelmed by its peacefulness , he sings , " what's this ? so much of the dialog is sung in this stop-action animated film that it could be considered a musical . the production numbers are lively , and the songs by steve bartek are fun . in contrast , the christmas sets are full of bright and happy primary colors . all the images are intriguing and strangely lovely . watch , for example , how long legged jack is beautifully framed in silhouette against the enormous halloween moon . young children could be quite frightened by the figures , but grade schoolers and above will more likely be mesmerized . there are also scenes of oogie boogie about to kill santa clause . if the story sounds familiar , dr . watching " the grinch " is a family christmas tradition in our household , and i admit i much prefer its simple message and rhyming dialog to burton's story . nevertheless , there is to admire in the nightmare before christmas jack skellington has much less sinister plans than the grinch . jack and santa do have different ideas on what constitutes acceptable gifts for the little kiddies . " that's strange , that's the second toy complaint we've had . " after scenes that include huge guns firing at jack dressed as santa , the movie does find its way to a happy ending . this is the only scene my son did not like and the only reason his thumb was not totally up for the film . personally , i can handle the scene . a bizarre , but engrossing film . whether its quirkiness is compelling enough to make it worth seeing is problematic , but its freshness won me over . it is rated pg . there is no sex , nudity or profanity , but there is threatened violence and some potentially frightening images . my son jeffrey , age 7 1/2 , gives it " a thumbs up , but only about one half of a centimeter down . " his increasingly eccentric scale makes this my first metric review . he says the picture should be for kids six and up , and i agree . i give the movie a thumbs up and * * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
" i'm sorry little boy . i can't this sign this kind of card , " says the superrich athlete . certainly not for some kid , no matter how much the kid idolizes him . athletics is big business -- entertainment business . the big bucks comes from the advertisers and for them , you need a top notch agent . poor jerry . as he puts it , he is " great at friendship , bad at intimacy . that's my theme song . " but it gets worse . rod's motto is that , " it's not about love . it's about 'show me the money . ' " such are the headaches of single digit millionaires . the best acting in the show is by mohr . his performance is frighteningly believable . gooding gives a complex performance as an athlete trying to cope with instant wealth . viewers worth less than a million may have difficulty understanding rod's predicament , but gooding provides heart and style to the role . tom cruise's movies inevitably have a love angle . someone has to be there for the female members of the audience to identify with . he tries to make up for it by making lame jokes about not wanting to be like clarance thomas . jerry , remember , does not do that intimacy thing . lipnicki is a cloyingly sweet actor who began to get on my nerves . i also have a problem with a show that has young kids saying the f word even if it does get laughs . don't cry at the beginning of a date . cry at the end like i do . " the story , written by the director , has many good lines and is quite upbeat . although most of the twists are inevitable , the show never loses the audience's interest . this is a pointless subplot that only serves to stop what is otherwise a high energy movie . there is not a single good actress among the group , and their lines are all trite . kaminski even uses a handheld camera in documentary style in a failed attempt to add authenticity to the scenes . my favorite small part of the film is the sound effects . tom cruise is a highly talented star with sex appeal and a large group of fans . i do not think he has ever given a boring performance although too many of them have bordered on the superficial . like a class of kindergartners after a party , his manic characters have all the hyper-kinetic activity associated with sugar overload . only in interview with the vampire did i not like his acting . i am even one of the few people who liked him in far and away . so how is cruise's performance in jerry maguire ? he skims over the surface without ever touching the water . his creates a character that is enjoyable to watch , but one not worth caring about . as the star upon which the movie is build , the weakness of his work is the major disappointment of the film . his acting in the picture is interesting , but never as involving as it should be . overall jerry maguire is an enjoyable film , but far from a memorable one . jerry maguire runs too long at 2 : 15 . this is a comedy , not an epic . the film is rated r for sex , brief nudity , some profanity , dope smoking , but no violence . some will call football inherently violent , but i am not counting it as such . i had a good time at jerry maguire so i am recommending it and giving it * * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
although you may no longer remember it , you probably read the play in high school or college . miller's play was intended to be a denouncement of mccarthyism with the locale changed to salem so that he could get it produced . the screen version is more obsessed with sexual longing than politics . i have heard it said that " the crucible " is miller's most popular play , but far from his best . after seeing the film version with the screenplay by miller , i agree with this assessment . the first part is a confusing muddle . the second part manages to provide the clarity the first part lacks , and by the end , the story's powerful message comes through . still , i remember thinking to myself halfway through that this show was such a hopeless mess that i would be unable to recommend it no matter how ( sometimes overly ) earnest were the performances . his acting is always full of energy and conviction , and this film is no exception . winona ryder is great as the conniving little tart . joan allen gives a stern and strong performance as a wife with a heavy sense of what is right . john expresses it as , " oh elizabeth , your justice would freeze beer . " elizabeth has a low opinion of herself , explaining to her husband that , " i counted myself so plain , so poorly made that no honest love could come to me . " although the acting in the film is excellent , the direction is aimless . the cinematography by andrew dunn is dark and ugly . combine these with the choppy editing by tariq anwar , and the effect is obscurity when enlightenment is needed . a little humor would have helped as well . as presented , the material is too unrelentingly and intensely serious . the excellent composer george fenton ( cry freedom and gandhi ) provides us with majestic music . the film builds to a powerful conclusion , and his music adds greatly to its energy . the crucible is a film that grew on me but still left me unsatisfied . the acting is wonderful and certainly worth seeing , but the screenplay is more obtuse than it should be . it is rated pg-13 . there is brief nudity , sexual fondling , hangings , and mature themes . there is no bad language . the film would be appropriate for kids say eleven and up . i recommend the show to you and suggest you not give up on it if you find the first part as tedious as i did . the second part is worth the wait . i give the movie * * 1/2 for its ultimate power . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
the 1948 version of the three musketeers is the exact sort of film most people have in mind when they call something a " costume drama , " usually implying sarcastically that the show is really all costume and no drama . his rendition of the three musketeers is one of his non-musical movies , but he cast a musical star , gene kelly , in the title role of d'artagnan . although you are convinced that the scene where kelly will either sing or dance is just around the corner , it never appears . the chief motivation to see this version is to marvel at the costumes by walter plunkett and to watch the sword fighting . it strains credulity to think of these as clothes to fight in , but at least they look magnificent . the women's gowns are even more outlandishly lavish . the wide spectrum of bright colors makes the show look like a test for a new film stock . if you are looking for a lightweight show where all of the actors have a blast making it , then look no further . this is it . the good guys are never in any real danger , and the bad are not particularly threatening . a great costume romp , and high camp too . no one takes his part seriously . the show appears cast for stars rather than roles . lana turner is haunting as milady de winter , and june allyson is radiantly lovely as constance bonacieux . price flubs such already ridiculous lines as , " when we think , our impulsive enemies are helpless . " one of the old time classic lines is athos's , " it's all for one , d'artagnan , and one for all . " van heflin takes this rousing anthem to bravery and camaraderie , and turns it into a trivial one , much like , " okay , let's go guys . " the music by herbert stothart borrows liberally from tchaikovsky , which makes for some romantic tunes . the colorful cinematography by robert h . planck takes full advantage of the splendor of the costumes . the sets by henry grace and edwin b . willis stick to dull grays and browns , all the better to set off the colors of the gowns . this version of the three musketeers is only one of many film versions of the novel by alexandre dumas . i suspect there is a better version , but it has been so long since i have seen the others , i cannot say this confidently . i remember liking the 1974 version with michael york , but that was twenty-two years ago , and i no longer remember precisely how good it was . it is not rated , but would be g . there is no sex , nudity , or profanity . the violence is fairly bloodless , and most people die by having the sword clearly thrust into the air under their armpits . my son jeffrey , age 7 1/2 , gives it a thumb almost up . he says the film is for kids 5 1/2 and up , and i agree . i give the show a mild thumbs up for mindless , swashbuckling fun , and i award it * * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
highly predictable , certainly . funny ? well , i think it depends on the viewers . others , may be inclined to write off the show as a lame comedy . most reviewers have been in the latter category . let me convince parents of the film's authenticity . i have long since lost track of how many times this has happened to us . director michael hoffman uses fast paced songs and frequent cuts to a digital clock to maintain the film's high energy level . both pfeiffer and clooney are good looking actors and full of talent . " my face is on buses . " the smart script by terrel seltzer and ellen simon keeps the barbs flying . in a comedy , you have to give the material a lot of leeway . although i do not expect accuracy , the treatment of her son in the office was too far fetched . sometimes the hectic pace is broken by a dreamy musical interlude , and new york city itself sometimes becomes a visual relaxation point . for those of you who may have forgotten , there are many lovely sights there , and one fine day shows off several to maximum effect . while most are realistic , having them all occur in a single day is not , but in a movie it works . in another all-too-true-to-life scene , melanie tries to reassure sammy with , " you're the most important thing in the world . " what parents have not been cut to the quick by their children with a line like that ? the supporting cast is strong , and there is even a cute little kitten that jack gets to carry . the ending is superb . " let's do this right , " says melanie . " let me freshen up so i'll feel a little more like a woman and less like a dead mommy . " you will never guess how their date ends up . or then again , those of you who are parents may . it is rated just pg . there is no sex , nudity , or violence . there are a few mild but , nevertheless , needless profanities . my son jeffrey , age 7 1/2 , gave it a 99 percent thumbs up . he downgraded it slightly due to the kissing scene . ( he made me cover his eyes , but let him peak so he would not miss any of it . ) i'd raise the age to 6 and up , but i certainly recommend the picture to all parents of kids less than twelve . for others , i'm not so sure . i give the film * * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
unlike his past low budget films , this one has a highly polished look and appears to have a cost quite a bit more . for you many jackie chan fans , do not worry , his latest picture is as much fun as the others . on the other hand , if you hated him before , this film is unlikely to change your mind . the acting by the supporting cast is pathetic , but , hey , you've got jackie . with his everyman demeanor , his innocent smile , and his vulnerability , he easily wins over the hearts of most audiences . the plot , such as it is , concerns a stolen ukrainian nuclear warhead . the plot is a mess . do not waste your time trying to make any sense out of it . just sink back into your theater seat and wait for jackie's next great stunt , remembering that jackie does all his own stunts . just to make sure you are aware of this , the film ends with five minutes of outtakes of him attempting the stunts . usually outtakes are shown along with the credits , but this time they hold the credits until the outtakes are finished . one could argue that this means they are really not outtakes , but who cares . they are entertaining , and entertainment is the only motivation for catching a jackie chan film in the first place . his smiles are genuine , and his action sequences are gorgeous set pieces . never expected to be realistic , his demonstrations of physical abilities are meant to dazzle . i'm not sure about a new level , but the film is certainly more visually attractive than his last , rumble in the bronx . i will not even attempt to outline the plot of first strike since , as i said already , it is inconsequential . the action is the show so i will cover some of it instead . the temperature in the film varies widely . jackie freezes in the snow , basks in the coastal sun , and swims underwater . the snow scenes are the best . dressed in a thin shirt with only a kid's silly seal pup cap on for warmth , jackie uses a snowmobile to chase the bad guy . he is an actor who is easy to empathize with so when he freezes , you freeze . he is hurt and frightened more often than any other action hero , and here he is forced to spend time swimming in water partially covered with ice . they wear ku klux klan style robes with white halloween skeleton masks . much of jackie's films are played for broad humor , and the audience is not supposed to take them seriously . they are pure james bond material . i have two small favorites in the film . he is really cute . actually , if you think about it , he resembles jackie . their smiles are so similar . call forth an instant array of parasols . he can't shoot what he can't see . and there is so much more . i didn't even mention the attack of the killer sea urchins . jackie chan's first strike runs about an hour and a half . the actors speak many languages , but non-english speaking ones , like jackie , are dubbed reasonably effectively into english . the film is rated pg-13 for cartoonish violence . there is no sex , nudity , or bad language . the picture would be fine for kids say ten and up . i had fun so i am giving the show a mild thumbs up and * * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : january 6 , 1997 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
as the opening credits roll for marvin's room , the camera takes us through a long , slowly panning close-up of a forest of medicine bottles . great , i'm thinking to myself . i'm going to have to sit through another manipulative , maudlin show about terminal illness . usually i find watching this type of film about as enjoyable as peeling onions . although there have been serious illness movies that i loved , shadowlands and terms of endearment come immediately to mind , more often i get offended by their overbearing sentimentality . as an extra treat , the picture is naturally , but not excessively , funny . not the black comedy of a harold and maude , but an upbeat one ready to laugh death in the face . " he's been doing it for about twenty years so i don't miss anything . " lee has a problem bigger than bessie's . lee tells bessie that , " we call it the loony bin , or the nut house , to show that we've got a sense of humor about it . " my main complaint with the filmed version is that director jerry zaks treated mcpherson's staging too reverentially . plays are best when opened up for the big screen . too often this movie has the claustrophobic and confined feeling of a play without the intimacy that a live play provides . the script has a delicacy along with the humor . the emotive music by rachel portman is full of dreamy and sad little piano tunes . the cinematography by piotr sobocinski , on the other hand , is too dark . although he is clearly trying for intimacy , it comes off more ugly than effective . without the humor , the film would have been unwatchably morose , but with it you can concentrate on the blossoming relationships , which comprise the core of the picture . still , the coming of death does seem to lurk around every corner of the movie . the saddest scene in the film ironically happens in " the happiest place on earth " -- disney world . surprisingly , this is not a movie that builds to the big event . the most important act turns out to be the middle one . it is rated pg-13 for its realistic consideration of dying and for a little bad language . there is no sex , nudity , or violence . the movie would be fine for kids interested in this type of serious material , and i think that probably means kids nine or ten and up . i recommend the picture to you and give it * * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : january 6 , 1997 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
i saw johns at the press screening . it opens friday , january 31 . " i am an entertainer . i do not go in for violence . " johns is a frequently shocking , intensely real , and always poignant look at the lives of young hustlers . first time director and writer scott silver makes many of the mistakes of newcomers but , nevertheless , shows much promise with his troubling , touching , and sometimes humorous view of homeless kids . silver's background is as a documentarian , and it shows . from these ideas , acknowledged in the credits , he derived the script . but it gets worse . although there are some similarities to midnight cowboy , john and donner are much more clean-cut looking . although i did laugh a few times , mainly i felt sorry for these two kids . the songs have all the happiness that the prostitutes lack . ubach's performance is unbelievably strident . arguably the best performance is by an actor in the minuscule role of hotel registration desk clerk paul truman . richard kind takes what has all of the markings of being the most cliched part in the film and gives paul great warmth and compassion . i cannot say more or i would give away some of the most precious moments in the film , and poor john needs his few good times to preserve his dignity . much is wrong and infuriating with johns . the cinematography has an intentional low budget look in the constant outdoor scenes . the background is so overexposed that you feel like you will be blinded . although the film has a good narrative drive , it is too predictable . the ending seems obvious from the start . nevertheless , the characters are sympathetically drawn so that every time their predictable tragedies arise , they touch your heart . it is rated r . there is explicit sex , drug usage , strong profanity , sadomasochism , violence , and quite adult themes . i do not think they show is for kids , even teenagers , but if teenagers do go , they need to be quite mature . i give the film a thumbs up and * * 1/2 . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . review written on : january 13 , 1997 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
i saw this mystical film at the press screening for san jose's cinequest film festival . jaya ganga a film review by steve rhodes copyright 1997 steve rhodes ( the movie jaya ganga is like that . it speaks as much with its silence as its words . ) her name is zehra , and she is beautifully acted with just the right touch of playfulness by smriti mishra . " i do not know the hows and whys of it . all i know is that ganga is a beautiful woman inhabiting my mind . " movies that work by the magical spell they weave on the viewer are difficult to give justice to in a review . i will try , but this is a movie that must be seen to be appreciated and understood . this romantic road picture takes place along the ganga . nishant journeys to the ganga and takes an adventure along it from its source to the sea -- traveling by bus , boat and foot . much of the story is based on a mystery that i will not reveal so that you can fully savor it yourself . there are just enough contrasting vignettes of poverty and corruption to force the viewer to realize that the picture is to be taken seriously and not just as a fantasy . the star of the show is not one of the two nominal leads , but the river itself . the cinematography by piyush shah is incredibly beautiful . in contrast , the daytime sequences of the river , as it cuts deep gorges into the snow capped mountains , look like a travelogue for a four star wilderness adventure . the romance between zehra and nishant is believable but is secondary to nishant's quest and his obsession with the ganga . a lovely little picture to be savored , not analyzed . it is in hindi and french with english subtitles . the movie is not rated , but would probably be pg-13 . there is a brief scene of sex in the distance that can barely be seen through a curtain . there is no profanity , nudity , or violence . i recommend the film to you and give it * * 1/2 . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . review written on : january 16 , 1997 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
fire on the mountain is a movie with a broad appeal . viewers interested in skiing or in world war ii will certainly find this documentary fascinating , but it speaks to a much wider audience . it is a humorous , touching and historically revealing picture . the best documentaries take you to places and events you cannot get to on your own . fire on the mountain is a new documentary now in theatrical release about a group of fun loving and courageous men of whom i'll bet you've never heard . the film starts with the skiers showing off their stuff in vintage clips from before the war . the weakness of the film is that too many of these are the classic funny falls that ski buffs might like , but of which others will quickly tire . luckily the film is much more than this . the old clips have aged surprisingly well and some of the shots are spectacularly beautiful . most are in the oversaturated color of that era's film stock , but some of the clips are in black and white . i expected most to be in black and white , which turned out not to be the case . one exercise that lasted 6 weeks in 30-below-zero weather was so strenuous that in one day alone 100 men were hospitalized with frostbite . the balance between interviews and old films is about right . the interviews with the veterans are poignant . " we fought like hell . that's the way a war should be fought . " as one pointed out , in 1943 aspen had only two buildings . of the film's three parts -- training , war , and ski industry -- only the first two are interesting . the last part of the film drags , but the whole movie is so short that this is not a significant problem . the end of the movie is good as the septuagenarians climb riva ridge one more time in celebration of the battle's fiftieth anniversary . " people ask me if i've retired , " he says . " i say yes . it is not rated but would be pg-13 for the wartime scenes . the film would be fine for kids say nine and up . i recommend this enlightening picture and give it * * 1/2 . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
i am not sure what australia's chief export is , but i'd like to believe it is their films . the australians have a knack for making quirky little comedies that work -- muriel's wedding being one of their funniest . in hotel de love , they have sent to our shores an endearing and charming comedy populated with characters worth caring about . first time director craig rosenberg's hotel de love is not great cinema , but it is certainly an enjoyable diversion . sometimes a split second makes all the difference . it does for steve . the script , by the director , is a mixture of comedy and romance with a touch of poignancy thrown in every now and then . the tone of the film reminded me of the old tv series " love american style , " albeit a little more explicit . every room there is different . my favorite is called subterranean passion and looks like something out of the flintstones , complete with a big boulder for a door . the set decorator clearly had a blast with this assignment . a great parody of bad taste . the script is sharp and witty and most of the laughs come from the dialog and not the wacky sets . movies with physical comedy too often sink into slapstick worthy of bad tv sitcoms , but this movie rarely goes overboard . this is exactly the type of scene i normally hate , but they manage to make it seem just believable enough to be humorous . the film is full of delicious little subplots . " what are you doing ? " " you can't keep up your drive-by 'i love you's . " i thought the first was too pat , but the others are quite sweet . i left the theater feeling a little silly and quite happy . it is refreshing to see new directors with promise . i'll keep an eye out for rosenberg's future comedies . it is rated r for brief nudity , some sexual groping , sexual humor , and some profanity . the show is tastefully done and would be fine for any teenager . i give the film a fun thumbs up , and * * 1/2 . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . review written on : january 29 , 1997 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
it's 1999 and all is not well at the golda meir school . they are angry at the class's cheating , but they are even angrier that the class is so stupid . every pupil has answered every question correctly and derived the answers in exactly the same way . i saw saint clara at san jose's cinequest film festival . the israelis loved the film , having given it their " israeli oscar " for best picture for 1996 . i thought this whole urban tough kid part was unnecessary and detracted from the rest of the story . i could have done without the vandalism scene and the one where the skinhead hits another kid with the bat . the film has lots of subplots and far too many of them are blind alleys where the screenwriter ( pavel kohout ) never should have taken us . nevertheless , the heart of the story is charming and full of imagination and surprises . the result is somewhat predictable , but still hilarious . if you've ever wondered what seismographers do in the wee hours while waiting for the needles to move , this show reveals the secret . it also tells you what pattern an earthquake makes on the seismograph . overall , a cute show with a perfect ending . the film even has the most innocent and romantic teen kiss that i have seen in a movie in over a decade . the film is in hebrew and russian with easy to follow english subtitles . it is not rated , but might get an r for the little violence plus the fact that the kids take colored pills . it is a harmless picture that would be suitable for any teenager . i recommend it to you . i give the film * * 1/2 . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
i saw it at san jose's cinequest film festival and got to participate in the question and answer session afterwards with its writer and director paul seydor . the film has been submitted for oscar consideration in the documentary short subject category . most people remember it as an ultra violent western . it was that , but it was much more as this film about its director partially demonstrates . you may think that seydor's job consisted of splicing together the old film stock and then getting some talking heads to do some voice-overs and interviews . if you did , you would be wrong . the making of the documentary is as amazing as the documentary itself . he only had about thirty minutes of film to work with . although the wild bunch was in vibrant color , the film footage they found was in black and white and without any sound . and to complicate matters even more , whoever originally shot the film used only one minute long film cassettes . this meant that most of the scenes in it only lasted five to six seconds . when it was given to seydor , it was basically assumed that , as valuable as it was , there was probably nothing he could do with it . as the results prove , this one-time professor and film historian , is an extremely resourceful and creative person . one of the most famous parts of the movie is known as the long walk . this walk was not in the script , but the documentary shows peckinpah improvising it on the spur of the moment . the film also includes some interviews as well as parts of the movie . seydor spent a lot of time making the film long enough to be substantial . the documentary is full of great little tidbits about the movie like the way in which they killed more men and shot up more uniforms than they had . without computers to fake it , they really had to do it . if it looks dangerous , that is because it was . the wild bunch : an album in montage runs a delightful 34 minutes . it is not rated , but would be r for some of the violent images . it would be fine for teenagers as the violent parts appear only briefly . i recommend this unusual documentary short to you and give it * * 1/2 . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
blood and wine is an atmospheric thriller by director bob rafelson . although each of the pictures stars jack nickolson , i see few other similarities . " it's a myth . " " why don't you sit down at your desk and write down all your complaints , and when i come back , we can have one of those long arguments you like so much . " about a third of the way into the movie the two stories , burglary and marriage difficulties , collide . after that , the film takes several surprising turns and evolves into a decent thriller . still , the script by alison cross and nick villiers too often gets mired in its own material . the languid direction does not help . the picture becomes a film noir on slow speed . tom sigel's shadowy cinematography and michael lorenc's sad music contribute to the film noir impression . the acting talent saves the picture . caine gives a sympathetic portrayal of his character . even in questionable films , the evening star being a recent example , nickolson manages to shine . here , his once hotshot salesman has vitality and pathos . only the cuban nanny figure lacks interest . her character exists mainly for the men to desire and has little depth . although costumes and sets establish the tone of a movie , so can the choice of cars . so what kind of car does victor have ? a land yacht -- a lincoln towncar -- that looks as tired as its owner . it is rated r for violence and language . it would be fine for older teenagers . i give the film thumbs up and * * 1/2 . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
after seeing and being disappointed by the recent ( 1997 ) remake of that darn cat , we decided to go back and watch the original 1965 version starring hayley mills and dean jones . although dated , the original clearly outshines the remake . even the cat in the original possesses superior acting talent and a wider ranges of emotions . the book's authors as well as bill walsh are credited with writing the screenplay for the original . i have been told that the botched screenplay for the new version went through so many rewrites that the writers , s . m . alexander and l . a . karaszewski , tried to disassociate themselves from it . while no masterpiece , the script for the 1965 film evidences a certain charm . unlike the broad slapstick of the remake , the original has a gentler and more subtle humor , plus it takes the cat and the detective story more seriously . both stories share a common plot outline . ( the remake changes it so that the partial word becomes a profanity , and they make much of the fact that it is cuss word . whereas the new version has christina ricci as an apathetic teen , the original had the ever peppy hayley mills . whereas angst-ridden ricci tries to be unlikable , mills's cheerfulness and sweetness makes her eminently likable . kelso takes his job seriously , which actually makes the result funnier . the remake has doug e . doug as kelso , and he so overacts that it is embarrassing to watch him . jones does some slapstick in the original , but controls his acting . outlandishness by itself rarely provokes laughter . " i have the informant in sight , " radios one of the agent trackers . the more the agents believe , the better it works . the show has a strong supporting cast including william demarest , frank gorshin , roddy mcdowall , and ed wynn . they all contribute to several interesting subplots . my favorite part of the show ? the drive-in . she complains that " all the surfer movies are alike , " but they sit with their eyes glued to the screen anyway . the original that darn cat runs a little too long at 1 : 56 . it is rated g and contains nothing offensive . the movie is suitable for the entire family . my son jeffrey , almost 8 , likes both version , but prefers the remake . i hated the remake , but recommend the original and give it * * 1/2 . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
you see , he is a master of disguise and figures that he can pull it off . director clint eastwood is a master as well , and the carefully choreographed sequence of luther's converging enemies is the best part of the picture . even if the end result is predictable , the elements of his escape are not . thrillers like this hinge on the ability of the audience to buy the story's logic . even if they have to suspend disbelief some , they want it to be within some parameters of reason . absolute power pushes these limits of credibility . although there are many of these implausible events throughout the story , let me just give a couple of early examples . in this story luther suffers from highly selective brilliance . i usually stick to reviewing films as written , but i will break my pattern for this movie . they could have easily made the president's character more credible . the cover-up could then have started simple but gotten out of hand without the overly massive and sinister overtones of absolute power . besides the ridiculousness of the plot , some of the acting is terrible . embarrassingly bad as the president , hackman wastes his great talent on a poorly written character . judy davis overacts so much that her part becomes a parody . along with the disastrous parts of the film , there are several promising subplots . he tells sadly her , " you're the only family i have . " to which she retorts bitterly , " luther , you don't have me . " laughs luther . " if i could do that , i'd be the star of my aarp meetings . " at the end of the interview , luther tells him , " i've got to go have my pacemaker checked , it has been so exciting talking to you . " some of the acting is exceptional albeit relatively wasted . harris , eastwood , glenn , and linney are all wonderful , but as soon as you get interested in their characters , the script insults your intelligence again . this frustrating film finally comes to an satisfying ending , but one that wraps up the loose ends all too neatly . absolute power runs too long at 2 : 00 . most teenagers should be able to handle the picture . the film gets a mixed review from me , but the good slightly outweighs the bad so i give it thumbs up and * * 1/2 . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
let's play make a movie ! you are a movie mogul . your company has entrusted you with zillions of dollars to spend on films . big budget is your middle name . you are paid the big bucks because you can make movies that will sell popcorn like there's no tomorrow . all of the producers are pitching their hot projects to you . everyone assures you that theirs will be the runaway hit that can make your career in hollywood . although your life could not look rosier , you do have this one fear . your recurring nightmare involves taking too much risk and blowing it all with some heaven's gate style turkey . you need some insurance . one of the proposals in front of you has remake stamped right on the cover . you tell your underlings to get cracking on it . the movie to be remade is a 1994 french film called un indien dans la ville and released in the us with a dubbed version called little indian , big city . your film will be called jungle 2 jungle . you find out that it made the worse 10 of the year list of many of the major critics and one of the biggest critics called little indian , big city one of the worse films ever made . you worry every minute until the curtains go up . well , you lucked out . not a great show but a nice if unremarkable kids' movie . you'll probably end up in the black , and your position is still secure . next time , however , you'll do better upfront research . disney's jungle 2 jungle is a live action film featuring popular actor tim allen . allen was the comedic foundation of disney's successful 1994 film the santa clause . both pictures were directed by john pasquin . allen's not nearly as funny this time , but it's not his fault . most of his lines are lame , thanks to the script by bruce a . evans , ray gideon and charlie peters . his lines are targeted toward the adults in the audience with mostly ineffective jokes involving such things as the brand of a shaver . all of the writer's creative energy seems to have been focused on developing the part of the boy . ( the film relishes symmetry . since the focus of the film is the wild boy , the effectiveness of the picture hangs on the casting of this role . huntington tries hard and shows promise as an actor , but is miscast in several ways . for a boy who has roughed it in the wilderness all of his life , i would not expect such a delicate looking boy . even though i think he was all wrong for the part , i ended up liking him anyway . the amazon part is cliche-ridden and predictable , but the new york locale , where most of the action occurs , provides a richer and more interesting terrain for comedy . some of the jokes are quite funny with the best involving a dart from a blowgun that accidentally anesthetizes the cat . lolita davidovich , much better known for her dramatic roles , gives the best small performance in the film . other actresses might have given it the tired old brainless routine , but davidovich imbues her character with a subtle but detectable intelligence . she also makes her character look alluring rather than cheap . the physical humor dominates as in , for example , the running joke about mimi siku urinating in all the wrong places . some of the shortest lines have the most punch . when the film attempts serious themes , it quickly loses the audience . most effective are the attempts at humor . some , like the coffee futures part , will go over the kids' heads and bore the grown-ups . others such as the russian mafia are little more than tedious plot devices to move the story along . still , on balance , a mildly funny film . with the dearth of kids' movies , it's good to see one even if it's only mildly funny . jungle 2 jungle runs 1 : 51 . it is rated pg for a couple of scenes of threatened violence . ( the film at the press screening had a g rating so perhaps it was re-rated . the film would be fine for kids of all ages . most saturday morning cartoons are scarier than this film . my son jeffrey , almost 8 , found the film " very hilarious . " he liked the character of the boy , especially when he was climbing big places . i thought it was an imminently forgettable film , but one funny enough for me to give it a thumbs up and * * 1/2 . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
the canadian film kissed by first-time director lynne stopkewich tackles one of the few subjects i have never seen considered before in the movies : necrophilia . before you either stop reading my review or start flaming me for liking this film , let me assure you that you have to see the movie to fully understand it . it handles its subject matter with delicacy . although it is frequently shocking , it is never exploitive . on the other hand , if you were to see this film without knowing what it is about , there is a good chance you might walk out or be sickened by some of the scenes . this is a movie that pulls no punches . if it were a hollywood film , the studio would have demanded a major rewrite after the first test screening . when i saw kissed at an advanced screening , the audience was fully engaged and many were enraged by the story . albeit only for the adventuresome filmgoer , this is a movie designed to make you think . the intelligent script by angus fraser and director lynne stopkewich is based on barbara gowdy's short story , " we so seldom look on love . " in a film that appears on the surface to be unique , there are numerous parallels to other pictures . first , the show is about obsession as is fatal attraction . finally , the film is actually the harold and maude for the 90s -- compulsively preoccupied with death . " i've always been fascinated by death , " explains the protagonist , sandra larson . " the feel of it , the smell of it , the quietness of it . " not much it turns out , but she is an eager pupil . he gives her the job and a single piece of advice , " don't wear black -- it's too depressing . " sandra approaches her work with a loving , sincere manner . in a science lesson unlike any i've ever seen before , we learn the details of embalming . i'll not repeat them lest you get ill . this scene , and not the sex , is the most difficult one to watch . the gross parts happen just off screen , but they tell you precisely what they are doing to the body . molly parker gives us a sandra who is gentle and kind . all of this is so beautifully done that you have to keep reminding yourself that this is a very disturbed young woman , and the guy she is violating is , afterall , dead . parker's performance was haunting but a bit aloof . if she could have revealed more about her motivation it would have helped enormously . the best we have is some of the dialog . " i'm consumed . " as i've told my readers before , i rarely try to guess the ending of the film , but in this one i was intrigued by the possibilities . among my numerous alternative endings , one of them did come to pass , but i was just as surprised that some of the others did not . " you didn't faint , " says the funeral director after sandra's embalming lesson . " that's always a good sign . " well , if you don't faint , you may like this most bizarre of films . then again , maybe not . " i never met anyone like you before , " says matt to sandra . " you're totally different . you're compelling . " so is the picture . kissed runs just 1 : 20 , but seems longer due to the subject matter's intensity . the film is not yet rated , but is certainly a candidate for an nc-17 rating for its sex , full frontal nudity , and , most of all , taboo theme . this is not a film for teenagers . i give it thumbs up as did my wife . would i recommend it ? well , if you can read this review and still be interested , you'd probably like the film . i give it * * 1/2 . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
alan j . pakula is a director with a somewhat uneven track record . although he garnered an oscar nomination for all the president's men , his sophie's choice might be even better known . i am a special fan of one of his lesser recognized works , the thriller consenting adults . ( someday , i would like to see a film from the british perspective . here we are told from the ira that the british do not really want peace , " they say the word peace , but at the end of the day , all they want is surrender . " all of the films i have seen start with the assumption that the british are oppressing the people of northern ireland , hence the birth of terrorism as a natural and inevitable outgrowth . there are two sides to every issue . it would be refreshing to hear the other . ) ford looks so out of breath that you begin to worry that he may have a real-life heart attack . although the sequence bears remarkable resemblance to the house-to-house battles in france during world war ii , the lighter-weight , automatic weapons , the sound effects editing , and the fast choreography of this part makes it the most successful aspect of the film . the movie has three acts plus the irish prologue . all too often , films do not take the time to adequately setup the characters . in this show , we have just the opposite problem . it seemed that the show might run out of time before they ever got to the action . the slow first act ran over an hour whereas half that time would have been ample . if the people had been more interesting , i would love to have stayed the full hour in this act , but these were pleasant but not particularly compelling characters . they were strangely devoid of emotion . the second act makes the picture . brad pitt struts his stuff and shows off his acting talent . the preposterous final act is mercifully brief . in a plot contrivance , things are wrapped up all too neatly . the show has many extra delights . the irish music is lovely . " it's not an american story . it's an irish one . " you can see the film and see if you think it is a happy ending or not . personally , i would have preferred a bit more ambiguity . it is rated r for realistic violence and for some profanity . it would be fine for teenagers . i admired brad pitt's acting and the strong second act enough to be able to recommend the picture , but it could and should have been much better . i give it * * 1/2 . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
" you could be such a pleasant person if you had a tiny edit button , " says slovetzian president boris pochenko to his children's new teacher joy miller . if you haven't heard her before , think of someone grating their fingers across a blackboard . even with her harsh good looks and tacky clothes , she still manages to win our hearts with her incessant cheerfulness . one of the more delicious parts of the film lies in the selection of costumes . typical is joy's outfit of tight lavender stretch pants with a lime green sweater top and matching headband . ( " so tell me , " asks joy , " what can you get for a place like this ? i mean in this neighborhood . " ) just like the von trapp family kids in the sound of music , the pochenko children are a large and mixed group of ages and emotions . literature consists of having the kids watch a west side story tape to make shakespeare more accessible . the two best scenes in the show involve the people of the country . most of the film is a sweet little picture . whenever this part takes center stage , the show bogs down . it does , however , engender one of the story's funnier lines . the film goes on ten to fifteen minutes past its natural ending point . still , i left with a nice grin . not a memorable show , but at least a funny diversion . it is rated pg for some mild language . it would be acceptable for kids of any age , but i suspect they will need to be nine or so to understand most of the humor . i give it thumbs up and * * 1/2 . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . 
being an old crook isn't easy . you get shot at , beaten up , and generally abused . it's not like the old days . there isn't even any honor among thieves anymore . first-time writer ken solarz's script connects all the dots with a standard formula plot , but keitel's acting raises the movie above its pedestrian material . director john irvin , known for such light-hearted films as a month by the lake and widow's peak , is smart enough to fashion the picture around keitel and let him set the pace . skip , " the wheelman , " seems ready to explode in every scene . dorff , who overacted in his most recent outing in blood and wine , gives a little more credible performance this time . although predictable on a macro level , the actions in any given scene are apt to surprise you . still , the overall feeling is that you have seen this story many times before . so what is compelling enough to make the picture worth seeing ? his studied and careful acting make for some captivating viewing . although he seems about to ignite and does in many scenes , nevertheless , his is a controlled burn . just the way his eyes scan a room speaks more than the dialog . although roy is a brutish killer , keitel manages to earn the audience's empathy . the picture undulates with a gritty melancholy . thomas burstyn's dark cinematography , although effective , has been done before by others and done better . stephen endelman's music , with various solo instruments wailing away , sets a soulful and sad tone . although quite a violent film , city of industry derives most of its tension from the mental anguish of its stars . an unimaginative but interesting film with one excellent piece of acting . some stars are enough to make the difference . keitel alone makes city of industry worth seeing . it is rated r for gory violence , nudity and profanity . the film would be fine for older teenagers . for keitel's work , i give the picture thumbs up and * * 1/2 . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
even pure formula films can have their charms . the 6th man recycles ideas and dialog from a host of other movies . not being a sports fan , i tire easily of films whose narrative consists of little more than a fast drive to the big game , which will inevitably end in the big shot that will catapult the underdogs to victory . the 6th man takes this sports film formula and crosses it with a remake of ghost , thus increasing the potential for disastrous results . generally loathing slapstick comedies and being far from the audience's intended demographical age of twelve plus or minus four , i , nevertheless , enjoyed this sweet little film . director randall miller , whose last picture was the poorly received houseguest , paints his film using broad humor mixed with a tinge of pathos . the genuine chemistry between kenny and antoine puts extra punch in their gentle jabs at each other . " you should forget females , " antoine chides kenny . he does this by such antics as picking up the huskie players and flying them up to the basketball hoop and by sitting on the opposing team's hoop and keeping their balls from going in . wayans and hardison are instantly likable stars . their cliche-ridden characters still manage to be engaging . although there are a couple of funny lines , the film derives most of its laughs from the physical comedy surrounding the long running joke that only kenny can see his brother . this scene and those words appear verbatim in almost every ghost movie . my favorite comedy routine in the show involves the team's mascot . always ending in humorous pain to the mascot , the sequences are reminiscent of the coyote in the road runner cartoon and his quest to find a gimmick that will enable him to catch that pesky road runner . the show has some nice special effects where antoine's body is distorted in various ways . other than the two stars , the other actors add little to advance the story . the basketball team is a careful mix of characters of every type , but none with any depth . the threadbare and risk-adverse script by christopher reed and cynthia carle needs more substance and originality . they feed a lot of one-liners to the on-court announcers , but most fall flat . no matter how minimal the supporting cast and the writing , the two leads carry the show . their brotherly love radiates readily into the audience . i've seen their vaudevillian style of humor many times before , but they are so good spirited that i still found myself laughing with the rest of the crowd . it is rated pg-13 for some profanity and innuendoes . the film would be fine for kids 7 and up . my son jeffrey , almost 8 , said , " i love it . it is so good . " this upbeat show's comedic energy won me over enough to be able to recommend it and give it * * 1/2 . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
although the film has a charismatic lead , jennifer lopez , in the title role as the grownup selena , the picture suffers from an overly homogenized and sanitized approach . writer and director gregory nava takes an all too reverential approach to the persona of selena . the resulting film feels less like the story of a flesh-and-blood star , than an idealized biography that a fan club might produce . the film has all of the high spirits and the depth of one of the old gidget movies . all of this notwithstanding , i thoroughly enjoyed lopez's performance . the film starts in 1995 with selena riding into the astrodome on a horse drawn carriage as her fans go wild . although there are numerous songs in the movie , edward lachman's glitzy cinematography and nancy richardson's fast editing concentrate on flash and dazzle . why selena became such a tejano music star , we never find out . whether because the songs are filmed in such a distracting way or because the ones they chose for the film are not selena's best , the film shows us a high energy entertainer whose singing can best be described as , well , pleasant . the undercurrent of the movie has to do with the struggles of being mexican-american . both characters stay in pure formula territory . but , olmos gives us a stage-father with a heart as well as a dictator . ( actually , selena could have become rich through diet books if the story is accurate . although he looks like the character than may provide some creative tension in the film , he turns out to be as sweet as the rest of the family . he does have one funny little habit . he wears a holster that is custom-made to hold a small bottle of hot sauce . with the exception of tejano music fans , most of us probably first heard about selena when she was murdered , but the film treats the event with all of the importance of an epilogue . it is as if the movie does not want to destroy its nostalgic ambiance with the brutality of real life . although the show has merit and lopez delivers a remarkably compelling and extremely likable performance , the picture suffers from terminal blandness and leaves too many questions unanswered . we learn just enough about selena to want to know more . selena runs much too long at 2 : 10 . it is rated pg for some mild profanity and the off-screen murder . the film would be fine for kids of any age , but those under ten would probably be interested only if they are selena fans . lopez's delightful performance is enough for me to be able to recommend the picture and give it * * 1/2 . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . review written on : april 1 , 1997 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
" my brother and i were born strangers . " set in 1957 in haley , illinois , the show is reminiscent of several old movies , but the story remains fresh and relevant . doug has fewer social graces than his slightly older brother jacey . baker's minor , but crucial , role has its biggest impact in a small revelation scene at the dinner table . jennifer connelly gives a strong performance as the sexually promiscuous sister . her no-holds-barred role even includes one of the few comedic scenes in the show . alice's role is small , and going's acting diminishes rather than enhances its importance . the costumes by aggie guerard rodgers and the makeup , transform a normally radiant tyler into a gawky teenager -- the mirror image of her looks in stealing beauty . tyler's acting is convincing during this part , but not later when pam has supposedly matured some . patton ( the spitfire grill ) outlines his part but little more , happy to keep it pure formula . screenwriter ken hixon creates a movie full of poignant and realistic vignettes . the film's major difficulties stem from pat o'connor's direction . o'conner , who gave us the delightful circle of friends , seems incapable of weaving hixon's vignettes into a compelling whole . the film drags frequently and the actors are allowed to let their voices taper off into incomprehensible , low mumbles . the film's pacing and energy level too often sag . the good parts are so insightful and strong that they easily carry the picture , but the interludes can be quite frustrating . inventing the abbotts runs 1 : 50 . it is rated r for sex , nudity , and some profanity . it would be fine for teenagers . the film's high points make the movie well worth recommending , but its droughts make me able to give it only * * 1/2 . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . review written on : april 2 , 1997 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
the film could be considered their brief autobiographies as dong uses still photos of the murderers growing up to make them seem more like flesh-and-blood people than monsters locked behind bars . this casual style represents the film's single biggest downfall . documentaries need energy , or they can become as dry as reading a dictionary . dong's questions too often illicit little interest from the prisoners . an interviewer with a more provocative style might have gotten the prisoners to open up more emotionally . all of this notwithstanding , the film does end up exposing an important subject . the easiest way to view problems in our society is to relegate them to the " couldn't happen here " category . when you are sure that some form of crime is being committed , but not in your neighborhood , it becomes an abstract issue that can be conveniently ignored and shelved into your tertiary memory . most of the convicts show some remorse , but none are particularly convincing . in one especially ironic interview , a prisoner rants and raves about the lack of religion in the schools . " you know , like cheerleaders -- 'kick 'em in the head' -- stuff like that . we never done it for fun , you know . we just did it if we need money . " it is not rated but would be r for its troubling and explicit pictures of people who have been beaten , stabbed , or shot . teenagers need to be mature to be able to handle the intensity of the images . i recommend the documentary to you and give it * * 1/2 . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
murder at 1600 fits right in with its ancestors - this year's the shadow conspiracy and absolute power . like its forefathers , it stretches credibility way past the breaking point . all of this having been said , director dwight little's murder at 1600 still turns out to be an entertaining thriller . yes , the story is preposterous and the acting by the supporting cast borders on parody , but the performances by wesley snipes and diane lane enliven what would otherwise be a pedestrian movie . they appear to believe their material and manage to transfer their acceptance to the audience . whereas i normally get obsessed with the problems of such a swiss cheese thriller , this time i found myself swept up into the two heroes' predicaments . they believed , so i believed , and i rooted for them right down to the last chase scene . in the opening scene , regis establishes his macho prowess , but will this new assignment be more than he can handle ? -- 31 , but the official list only has names 30 of them . this does not add up . all of this happens quickly at the first of the movie . from there the film , filled with dramatic music ( christopher young ) down in the low registers , moves from surprise to surprise with several obligatory chase scenes to keep the energy going . the sound effects include the requisite number of thunderstorms lest you forget to be frightened . beside the impossibility of the script by wayne beach and david hodgin , the dialog borders on the trite , especially in one supercilious speech at the end . still , the story line twists one way and then another and always keeps your attention . every time you think you have the mystery figured out , you don't . although snipes has star billing , diane lane's performance is equal to his . she manages to be beautiful without any sexual connotations . both snipes and lane play intelligent people with interesting other lives . daniel benzali wins the award for the worst performance in the film . a high energy thriller with two good leads . what more could you ask for ? well to start with , a plot with a tinge of plausibility and a supporting cast that was not embarrassing . nevertheless , snipes and lane manage to carry the movie . it is rated r for violence , profanity , and sexuality . it is a mild r and would be fine for teenagers . i enjoyed the picture , flaws and all , so i recommend it to you and give it * * 1/2 . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . review written on : april 15 , 1997 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
the magic of first wives club stemmed from the utter enjoyment of its stars . so it is with director carl reiner's that old feeling . the leads , bette midler and dennis farina , view their acting as a chance to have a romp . they don't work at their craft , they just kick back and have fun . carl reiner , whose last film was the unsuccessful fatal instinct , has some trouble channeling his stars' energy into a compelling whole . doubtfire ) throws most of the humor into the film's opening act , but the film does not find its footing until midway through , even though the show has a promising premise and likable actors . little known actress marshall becomes the show's picture frame . her talented acting is easy to overlook just as a good picture frame will not call attention to itself , but will dramatically enhance the portrait it encompasses . his profession engenders the funniest lines in the film . the story's delicious plot cranks up at the wedding party . the broad comedy's ultimate charm rests with the acting . midler , who looks younger and more beautiful than ever , radiates good spirited joy , and her comedic timing is right on the mark . danny nucci , who was the centerpiece of last year's excellent but overlooked the big squeeze , starts off gratingly but ends up giving one of the sweetest performances in the picture . the film's best small moment has midler singing " somewhere along the way . " most films today shy away from complete songs . excerpts are fine , but leaving in an entire song , as editor richard halsey does here , is quite unusual . that old feeling builds to a predicable , but extremely satisfying ending . an uneven movie , but one whose stars eventually win you over . not a memorable film , but an entertaining one . that old feeling runs 1 : 45 . it is rated pg-13 for language and sexual situations . the film is quite mild and would be fine for kids , say eleven and up . i give the movie thumbs up and * * 1/2 . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
sincerity , in and of itself , does not a good film make . true stories , no matter how harrowing , will not guarantee that a movie made about them will become a compelling motion picture . beresford's directorial record overflows with inconsistencies . for every winner such as driving miss daisy or tender mercies , there are flops like last dance or a good man in africa . bereford's movies click when they concentrate on a few characters who have a touching story to tell and a well developed script . glenn close , playing a character remarkably like sarah wheaton from sarah , plain and tall , gives an earnest reading of a prisoner of war who essentially becomes the prisoners' leader and choirmaster . margaret gets most of the memorable , if sometimes corny , dialog . " i just can't bring myself to hate people . the worse they behave , the sorrier i feel for them . " ) jennifer ehle , who played elizabeth bennett in the pride and prejudice mini-series , gives a touching performance as prisoner rosemary leighton-jones . and so on , which is the problem of the film in a nutshell . there are probably two dozen people with substantial parts . only the very best of scripts , which this one is not , can bring that many characters to life . the screen adaptation suffers from the lack of any narrative drive . although some of the individual vignettes are deeply moving , others seem no more than fillers . as a tearjerker based on true stories , the film delivers . some of the scenes may have you wrenching in horror . still , i found myself reflecting on my readings about german concentration camps and wondering about the film's veracity . i began to believe that the picture had sugar coated its message a bit to make it more palatable to the audience . as horrible as were a few incidents in the picture , i suspect that the reality was worse . like the rest of the story , this incident happens , but the movie is too busy to delve into it . although undoubtedly true , it comes across as a hollywood creation to make the camp more fun . if the writer had concentrated seriously on a relatively few characters and thrown out the schmaltzy choir subplot , the movie would have had much more power . as it is , the film is a heartwarming collage of incidents and characters that tease your imagination and assault your senses but leave you more curious than moved . it is rated r for violence and bathing nudity . the film would be fine for teenagers if they can handle the torture scenes . i give the film a mild recommendation and * * 1/2 . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
" there may not be much of it left , but i want to spend the rest of my life with you , " practices 70'ish hal , while kneeling in front of an empty sofa . " will you marry me ? " rod roeser , giving an empathetic and serious performance as hal , the would-be bridegroom . filmmaker jessica yu debuted better late , her latest short film , at the 1997 sundance festival . the beauty of better late shines in the meticulousness of hal's preparation . ( will he go for a youthful look with an hawaiian shirt or should he shoot for somber and serious with a mortician's blue suit and a banker's suspenders ? ) the film wastes little time on dialog or even facial expressions , rather it is in the details of the set decoration and body language that the intricacies of the story unfold . the most surprising revelation about this film was that she had 40 people read for the part of hal after the casting director had already rejected 40 others . good shorts are much harder to develop than they may seem . better late runs about 10-15 minutes . it is not rated , but would be g . the film will probably not interest those under ten , but would be acceptable for any age . i recommend this touching short to you and give it * * 1/2 . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
when i was growing up , the kids' movies , even ( or especially ) the b movies , had one redeeming feature : a fascination with science . what better way to enliven a kid's imagination than a science fiction film ? the honey i shrunk the kids series provides not only science fiction , but the appreciation for creativity and the whole invention process . moreover , they celebrate quirky people as people to be admired rather than ridiculed since their big ideas might just work . the second film in this series is director randal kleiser's honey i blew up the kid . released in 1992 , it represents a nicely done b movie for the whole family . the slightly hokey special effects are just realistic enough not to be ridiculed . the premise of the show is that wayne is trying to perfect a machine to enlarge items . beside , what more visually interesting place to film a giant than a backdrop of neon figures as big as this godzilla-sized toddler . i will not reveal the resolution to their predicament , but here's a hint . " there's one thing every little kid knows , " diane tells us . a film that from start to finish is good spirited family fun , it never lapses into parody and never pretends to be more than it is . honey i blew up the kid runs just 1 : 29 . it is rated pg , but i am not sure why . the film would be fine for all ages . the recent video honey we shrunk ourselves is our 8-year-old jeffrey's favorite in this series , but he likes honey i blew up the kid too . i recommend this picture to you and your family and give it * * 1/2 . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
hollywood's paucity of ideas has given way to a surfeit of twins . this is the year of two movies for every concept . there are two comedies about tenth high school reunions , grosse pointe blank and romy and michele's high school reunion . and in the blockbuster category , we have two disaster movies about volcanoes . one which played close , but not close enough , to parody was called dante's peak . the other is the serious , special effects extravaganza known as volcano . it is also the only one of the two volcano movies with decent acting . be warned , however , the year is early so hollywood could well turn any or all of these twins into triplets . but let's hope not . the film has easily the best tag line this year : " the coast is toast . " before getting into the heart of the review , let me comment first on the real star -- the spectacular special effects . the river of lava has a realism and a power that needs to be seen to be appreciated . more interesting , however , is the way in which the movie hints at the volcano's force through steam that blows off the manhole covers . the film is both involving and intriguing during this whole exploration phase . then the script by jerome armstrong and billy ray makes the classic horror movie mistake , rushing the monster , a . a . the lava , onto the screen too quickly because they lack confidence in their ability to hold the audience's attention with mere suspense . lots of action and big explosions -- now , that will make the audience feel they got their seven bucks worth and make them tell their friends to see that awesome movie . this second act , which takes more than three quarters of the film , outwears its welcome . periodically fun , but too often tedious . the plausible chemistry between them never becomes overblown , and the usual big fight between the leads never occurs . the second problem with the script concerns the small human melodramas . whereas the overall logic of the picture is presented plausibly enough for a movie , the unbelievable heroics of the minor actors begin to take a toll on your brain . would you stay with someone in an exploding building just because they were trapped ? would you jump into a river of lava carrying a dying man instead of jumping safely across by yourself ? even though director mick jackson cannot save the sagging script , the actors and the special effects keep your attention . he manages to take the film's mundane dialog and breath life into it . his character becomes at once both funny and strong . the script could have paced the long second act better by feeding him some decent humorous fare . jacqui kim ( disclosure ) takes the poorly written role of the noble dr . jaye calder and transform it into a mildly interesting character . volcano , despite its faults , does entertain a crowd . memorable ? hardly , but the main actors are worth seeing , and that first act has so much promise it almost makes you want to forgive them for blowing the second . it is rated pg-13 for the intensity of the disaster and the associated injuries . depending on how well your child can handle disaster movies , the film could be seen by kids as young as 8 , but it would be too much for our 8-year-old . the trailers for it scared him badly so we certainly would not take him . i recommend the film for its entertainment value and give it * * 1/2 . if you can only see one volcano movie this year , then this is the one to see . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
so how did your tenth high school reunion go ? more apropos , how would you like it to have gone ? romy says this will be easy , but michele retorts that if it is so easy , why hadn't they already done it . robin schiff's script keeps the show moving with some nice one-liners . " that was like the best diet ever . " the casting for the film is so perfect that one begins to suspect that the leads were chosen and then the script was developed . roommates romy and michele in this good spirited parody are your canonical ditzy blondes . romy and michele were none of the above . even though they were quite attractive , they had so much fun being together that they did not care about the others . mona may's costumes contribute to the show's breezy fun . romy and michele's hairdos have the bulk that birds need to build nests . garofalo's one dimensional role is only a side show . this is a two person film with the other characters there merely for the two leads to bounce their lines off of . the genuine chemistry between sorvino and kudrow makes for a sweet and sometimes touching comedy . director david mirkin's presentation is uneven . although the lines are periodically funny , the picture as a whole just does not have the comedic power of gross pointe blank , which is another 10th high school reunion comedy currently playing . still , sorvino and kudrow have so much fun doing their parts , their enjoyment spreads to the audience . it is rated r for sexual humor and a little profanity . the film would be fine for kids 10 or 11 and over . i recommend this lighthearted and lightweight comedy and give it * * 1/2 . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
as dave berry would say , " i am not making this up . " although adults may be bored stiff by the confusing story and find the outfits laughable , the film will undoubtedly find an eager audience with the grade school group . the film starts off strongly with a highly imaginative kung fu sequence inside the kitchen of a chinese restaurant . peter pau's cinematography is stunning throughout the film , especially during the food photography . the images remind one of like water for chocolate . a lavish food scene of sumptuous beauty is the last thing one expects in a kids' movie , especially a magical , superhero one . this one appears as though lifted out of a metropolitan opera production . the less said about macfadyen's atrocious acting , the better . both are in strong contrast to the dull forest colors on the rest of the actors . elysia gives ryan a 30-second explanation of the characters and their places in his new environment , but it makes about as much sense as flipping through the cliff's notes version of " war and peace . " eventually , the story comes together somewhat , but the confusion remains . it feels like you are watching the twenty-fourth episode of a dungeons and dragons series , where you missed the first twenty-three episodes . as an adult , there is only one way to survive the film -- crank your brain down to third grade level . ignoring the silly plot and funny rubber heads , you can begin to appreciate the majesty of the rest of the production . in both films , the sets are the most impressive parts of the movie . a tad too dark for the preschool set , but beautiful nevertheless . he and the director of photography clearly worked together closely on the effect they wanted to create . the film is at its most magical in the choreographing of the fight sequences . finally , i must comment at length on the pg rating of the film , which i fear may be too lenient . there is a single bad cuss word in the film , and it is used effectively for humor in one of the movie's best lines . still , it is just the sort of inappropriate phrase that your kid will repeat endlessly . the film has several open mouth kissing scenes , where the kisses are carefully aborted just before the lips and tongues touch . the biggest problem comes in several violent scenes which would have worked just as well without the blood . if you make the mistake of taking kids younger than seven , they may repeat ryan's plea : " i don't want to be here anymore . i don't want to see death . i just want to go home . " it is rated pg . the film's target audience is the grade school crowd . the beauty of the production convinced me to give the picture thumbs up and * * 1/2 . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
the intensity of the all too manipulative script by gregor nicholas , johanna pigott , and james salter focuses on nina's dysfunctional family . even when not violent , serbedzija makes you think ivan is about to explode . " i wanted to do what i wanted to do , no matter what , " she tells us . " it was my moment of freedom . " nina and eddie's romance form the second and most interesting of the narratives . the chemistry between them is touching and believable , and their few love making scenes are beautifully erotic even if only one is explicit . ( the film inappropriately has been tagged with an nc-17 rating , which director gregor nicholas protested and lost . the press kit explains the mpaa appeals board said that one of the film's love making scenes contains " buttock thrusting , " so they felt that they had to rate it nc-17 . given the massive violence in countless r-rated shows , and the more explicit sex and more rampant nudity in many other r-rated films , it seems strange that one motion would make such a difference , but apparently it did . it would seem the mpaa believes it is the latter since the former gets a film the more profitable r-rating and latter condemns the movie to an nc-17 . some newspapers will not even carry advertisements for nc-17 films . ) the third story , which remains no more than an outline , is about eddie's family , his people and his culture . we see them from afar in a few scenes , but we rarely venture into their world . only his beloved whakapapa tree provides a link to this undeveloped part of the story . both of these chinese characters are so badly stereotyped that it becomes embarrassing to watch . the film smolders as if building to an explosive conclusion . when the ending comes , it is remarkably plain and unoriginal and packs little wallop . a bit scary , certainly , but nothing out of the ordinary . with a surfeit of stories , the audience is too often shortchanged . an overly ambitious film , it does manage to deliver on the romance even if it too often buries it in the manipulative saga of the brutal family . it is inappropriately rated nc-17 . although there is sex , nudity , violence , profanity , and dope smoking , the level is on a par with most r-rated films and the violence is less . the movie would be fine for mature teenagers . i liked the picture just enough to be able to recommend it and give it * * 1/2 . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . review written on : may 2 , 1997 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
although at his best in a live monologue , his screen adaptations shine as well . to most people , sitting through a movie where one guy talks for an hour and a half sounds like torture . unlike his previous monologue pictures , gray's anatomy opens with someone other than spalding . this eight minute introduction could easily have people heading for the exits . the stories' validity make them all the more hard to think about . and you can imagine the possibilities with oven cleaner and fish hooks . you get the idea . although this portion of the film diverges from the tradition of featuring spalding and only spalding , it effectively sets the stage for the film's topic -- spalding's macular pucker . if you did not cover pucker in your biology class , don't worry , spalding quickly turns you into an expert . the best part of the film surrounds the long story of his seeking to be healed by visiting a native american sweat lodge with a bunch of swedish looking men and women . spalding always manages to find and talk about some of the world's most interesting human beings , and this film is no exception . spalding has had small acting parts in thirty traditional films , but has made only two previous monologue movies . directors do make a difference . swimming to cambodia was directed by jonathan demme ( the silence of the lambs and philadelphia ) , and demme understood and appreciated spalding's unique talents so he resisted the urge to embellish the film . gray's anatomy's director steven soderbergh ( sex , lies , and videotape ) has no such respect for spalding . soderbergh , lacking confidence in the audience's intelligence , feels that he must jazz up the production with cute camera work and bizarre lighting . although soderbergh's madness does have a purpose -- he wants you to feel what it is like to lose you eyesight -- it , nevertheless , only serves to be a tremendous distraction . i want to see spalding , not a talking shadow or a man blurred with harsh backlight . the cinematography by elliot davis deserves one of those " worst of the year " awards . i was fortunate to see spalding do monster in a box in a lovely and intimate outdoor setting . he does not need soderbergh's wizardry . if you cannot see spalding gray live , then do see his monologue films . gray's anatomy can be infuriating , but spalding makes it worthwhile . the film is not rated , but would probably be pg-13 for the brief profanity and sexual references . it should be fine for kids say 10 and up . i would not have missed it , so i recommend it to you and give it * * 1/2 for a terribly flawed but intriguing monologue . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . review written on : may 4 , 1997 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
welcome to mr . except for the periodic political diatribes , brassed off is a quite pleasant but rarely challenging formula picture that telegraphs every punch . pete postlethwaite gives a moving but too frequently saccharine performance as danny , the leader of the grimley colliery band . his face seems incapable of smiles . ( writer and director mark herman's political agenda keeps getting in the way of logic . how this makes any sense is never explained . the film assumes that the audience is a priori on the side of the union , hence management can be completely and illogically stereotyped as evil incarnate without need for explanation . ) his singleness of purpose is directed totally to the band's winning the national championship . ( " i love the band -- we all do -- but there's other things in life that are more important , " reasons his son . tara , who gave delightful performances in the englishman who went up a hill , but came down a mountain , a man of no importance and sirens , manages to charm the audience again . but he responds , " i don't drink coffee . " in a cute piece of dialog , she adds , " i haven't got any . " too bad since the preliminary chemistry between them is quite intriguing . his son , missing his grieving dad , tells his mom , " i don't want to see dad sad , mom , but i'd rather see him sad than not see him at all . " as soon as you hear the film's setup , you can write the movie's conclusion yourself . yes , after a manipulative sequence designed to force you to tears , there is the obligatory and completely predictable ending . only a minor twist changes it slightly , but the writer is so afraid of breaking formula that the twist is taken back as soon as it is introduced . brassed off's best part is its rousing and beautiful music of a type rarely heard in movies . just ignore the movie's heavy political dogma , accept that you know its conclusion , and kick back and enjoy the music and the sweet acting . it is rated r for a little bad language . given the film has no sexuality , no nudity , no drugs , and nothing other than a couple of bad words that i missed but supposedly were there , i would consider the film basically pg . kids need to be about 9 or so to be interested , but the picture would be acceptable for any age . i recommend this formula film and give it * * 1/2 . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . review written on : may 6 , 1997 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
" no animals were harmed during the making of this movie . although some were erased and had to be redrawn . " -final closing credit cats don't dance is a cartoon musical featuring song and dance numbers by animated animals with a story in-between . the film had a brief run in the secondary theaters and is now playing in the bargain basement chains before moving to video . distributed by warner brothers , the film has all new cartoon characters , but most are takeoffs on older real actors . for such an amalgamation of writers the style is amazingly consistent . the surprise in the approach is that the dialog is written at a much higher level than in most kids' movies , which is both a blessing and a curse . the adults will find more of interest , but the little kids may be lost , especially in the story's many allusions to older films , like gone with the wind , and film stars ( cary grant , laurel and hardy , bette davis , and w . c . fields ) . the dialog tends to be more clever than funny . the musical numbers are full of color and glitz worthy of old busby berkeley numbers . the animation uses a palate heavy on the roses , pinks , and pale blues , and the images are drawn more for bold imagination than realism . " let's show the world what we can do . " some of the scenes may prove too dark and serious for younger kids . many of the scenes need crisper editing by dan molina . and director mark dindal seems too infatuated with his obsession with mimicking hollywood of old to concern himself properly with the show's timing . cats don't dance is a highly forgettable romp of a movie which can best be described as , well , cute . it is rated g and has little other than a few ominous images to offend anyone . jeffrey , age 8 , thought the film was " excellent , " and he especially liked danny . a close call , but i do recommend the film and give it * * 1/2 . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . review written on : june 1 , 1997 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
but when he is smaller , he is adorable and quite manageable . buddy is a coming of age picture about a gorilla . most surprising of all is that a picture filled with chimpanzees and a baby gorilla manages to avoid most of the slapstick cliches one would expect . if you have a natural aversion to saccharine chimps , you might find these amazingly delightful and expressive . and anyone would love the gorilla . " of course this place probably already is the nut house . " the four chimps are treated completely like children . well , as impeccable as apes can have . buddy possesses tremendous charm , most of all when he is a baby even if that is the least convincing of the special effects . good question and a precursor to the rest of the story . throughout most of buddy , the story is a wonderful and magical adventure into the animal kingdom , but parents with impressionable children must be forewarned that the movie turns tragically sad and quite frightening before it ultimately ends on an upbeat note . it is precisely because the film was able to morph into a more serious film that hooked me . before that it was little more than light hearted pabulum . once things turned bad , i realized how much i had come to love buddy . it is rated pg for some frightening scenes of an angry gorilla . my son jeffrey , age 8 , liked the movie , but was very scared in a few of the scenes . the rest of the kids in the audience seemed to handle it pretty well , but again , i'd be careful . jeffrey's favorite parts of the movie were the adorable " baby buddy and the kittens . " because of the effectiveness of the ending , i am able to recommend the picture and give it * * 1/2 . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . review written on : june 6 , 1997 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
some countries seem to specialize in certain movie genres . as the entire world knows , america can make special effects blockbusters like no other country . for low key , working class comedies full of droll humor , few countries can equal the irish . the first two novels were made into the well received movies , the commitments and the snapper . ( look on the back of the fish 'n chips and burger van in the van , and you'll see " beware the snapper " as a little in-joke to remind the audience of the last movie while also poking fun at the merchandise . ) been made redundant . " donal o'kelly plays bimbo , the more serious of the two . together the two of them craft a good spirited comedy . although it turns somewhat bittersweet towards the end , the chemistry between them hums like a smooth running and happy little engine . their story is rarely exciting , but always congenial . director stephen frears ( dangerous liaisions ) has the good sense to never try to make the movie more than it is , a small tale of two friends coping through some troublesome times . it is in the minutia , which he handles with such a deft touch , that the show has its charm . larry feels his family needs to economize but isn't even willing to substitute chicken for turkey for the christmas dinner . he asks rhetorically , " what's christmas without a turkey ? " ( the beauty and the challenge of the film is the thick irish accents . yes , the lack of a motor is one of its many deficiencies . except for one outlandish episode where a accidentally fried nappy ( which we americans call a diaper ) is sold as fried fish , most of the humor is so understated that it rarely elicits more than a small giggle from the audience . this lack of any substantial laughs in a comedy will probably be its downfall . those used to broad comedy with slapstick humor are likely to be disappointed by this subtle story . but those willing to cut it a little slack , will find our two unlikely heroes quite appealing . the beautiful cinematography by oliver stapleton , who did the stunning work in restoration , comes alive in the night sequences . the warm glow of the incandescent light of the interior of the van at night makes larry's and bimbo's business somehow magical . the show ends abruptly . several scenes which you are convinced are just around the corner , never occur . the visual at the conclusion is the picture's best , and one worth savoring . the van runs 1 : 36 but feels shorter . it is rated r for constant use of the f word . the film would be fine for teenagers . i recommend this little picture to you and give it * * 1/2 . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . review written on : june 13 , 1997 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
this is a hint -- not that anyone needs one -- that their cruise will be anything but . when the inevitable disaster hits , annie proclaims , " i'll swear , i'm never leaving the house again . " welcome to speed 2 : cruise control . speed was a textbook example of how to craft a taut action thriller with every scene choreographed for maximum adrenaline rush . any sequel was bound to disappoint , and so does this one . not so much in comparison to the original as to what it could have been . swat member alex shaw ) and a lack of focus on bullock , who deserved a more central and better written role , are the script's chief downfalls . still the action does work , and most audiences will not be disappointed . patric , who played shakes in last year's sleepers , gives a completely mechanical performance as a daredevil extraordinaire . in the original , keanu reeves did some incredible stunts , but he made his character human and vulnerable . in contrast , patric approaches every disaster with the assurance of an actor who knows that this is only a stunt so there is no reason to worry . no problem , he'll jump in the water near the propeller , while any sane man would worry that it would cut him to pieces . robocop had about as much self-doubt , which is none at all . reeves and bullock oozed chemistry , yet showed little physical affection . in contrast , patric and bullock talk about sex , even if they are never shown doing it , but demonstrate little genuine romance . bullock , when not in the shadow of or being courted by patric , gives a good performance . easily the best scene in the show has her showing her resilience to adversity . a convenient chain saw . speed 2 never takes itself too serious . ( most engineering schools probably don't disclose this . ) in the spirit of the original speed , his plan to take control of the ship is ingenious and full of technical details . dafoe takes a surprisingly understated approach to his character . i respect him for what he was trying to do , but it drained the show of too much of its tension . andrew davis's under siege covered a similar subject with much better results because tommy lee jones gave us a more explosive and unpredictable villain . the movie's best performance is given by first-time movie actress christine firkins as a 13-year-old deaf girl named drew . i cannot say enough good things about firkins's acting ability . a charismatic actress who takes what could have been a cliched character and transforms her into a frightened but resourceful girl and a character worth caring about . like most recent action picture endings , this one goes on too long . unlike the others , speed 2 manages to throw so much at us that it stays fun much longer than expected . the little pooch's fun becomes so infectious that i found myself applauding at one piece of the conclusion's campy humor . speed 2 runs longer than necessary at 2 : 13 . it is rated pg-13 for disaster action and violence . the film would be fine for kids say nine and up , depending on how well they handle disaster movies . i had enough fun to be able to recommend the picture and give it * * 1/2 . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . review written on : june 11 , 1997 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
" i've got 4 days to break up a wedding , steal a bridegroom , and i have no idea how to do it , " laments the gorgeous protagonist , julianne potter . the resulting film , my best friend's wedding , becomes more of a star vehicle for roberts than the second film of a talented director . although there are many laughs , this frustrating movie has more missed opportunities than realized ones . ronald bass's script has promise , but not with julia roberts as the lead . her ever sweet persona covers over what should be a character with some hard edges . her actions are never credible , and the script seems to be trying to gloss over any evil intentions on her part . mulroney's failing is that he is an extremely bland actor . in my best friend's wedding , he plays a bland character , and the result is , well , bland , which does not make for particularly exciting viewing . diaz is sadly miscast . as her brilliant and biting work in the last supper shows , she would have made a perfect julianne . granted , this would have decreased box office revenue , but it would have also decreased cost so the profit might be the same . on the other hand , roberts could not have played kimmy , but i suspect hollywood could have found a truly brainless blonde for the role . most of julianne's other tricks similarly go awry . when i tell you that george is gay but will fake being julianne's fiancee , you will probably shrug your shoulders and say that you've seen that too many time lately . everett takes this potentially cliched part and turns it into one both strong and funny . the relationship between julianne and george as good friends is the best and only genuine one in the picture . the best parts of the show are the musical numbers . the opening credits have one and another occurs during a big pre-wedding banquet . both are simply hilarious and reminiscent of muriel's wedding . if diaz had just been given the lead , this could have been an excellent second release for the director . but she wasn't . it is rated pg-13 for one use of the f-word . the " nudity " is basically confined to julia roberts showing off her belly button in almost every outfit . the film would be fine for kids around ten and up . in a very close call , i am giving the film thumbs up and * * 1/2 for everyone but roberts and mulroney , whom i wish were never cast for their parts . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . review written on : june 16 , 1997 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
some movies have dog written all over them . the more i saw the trailers to out to sea , the more i dreaded its screening . but sometimes , even seemingly hopeless films can prove better than one has any reason to expect . still , i would be remise if i did not admit that the show will be better received by the older folks than the younger ones . for those of us who can appreciate angst-filled gen x movies , action thrillers , and chick flicks , surely we can enjoy the humor from a couple of film veterans in their 70s . as the ending credits rolled ( complete with sweet dance numbers followed by some hilarious out-takes ) , my wife and i gave each other a i-can't-believe-the-show-was-actually-funny look . ( " did you see the chassis on that broad ? at this point in the show , i sat there smugly confident that my prediction of bomb would be right . as i watched the actors , their genuineness begin to take hold . a bit hunched over , they had charisma and style , and they crafted characters that were compelling even if sometimes too outlandish . cmdr . lemon plays his part seriously . surprisingly , the best part of the picture is a realistic romance between charlie and a gold digger named liz labreche played with infectious fun by dyan cannon . cannon is a two time oscar nominee whom i had not thought about in years . " i saw the way you were looking at my daughter's breasts , " liz warns charlie . ( " no such thing as too late . audience reactions can sometimes add to the movie-going experience . so it was at our screening . it was as if there were subliminal clue cards flickering on the screen . " yea , i have a question , " herb blurts out . " how do you get off this ship ? " you may feel the same way in the beginning , but stay aboard and get your sea legs . you'll meet some new friends and have some good laughs with them . certainly not the best cruise of your cinematic life , but a pleasurable one nevertheless . it is rated pg-13 for a little mild language and some sexual humor . the show would be fine for kids of any age , but they would probably need to be nine or so to enjoy it . i can't believe it , but i am actually recommending this show , not only to the seniors , who should especially love it , but to a general audience . it gets * * 1/2 . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
paul davids's documentary about timothy leary , the canonical 60s radical and proponent of the drug culture , is as fascinating as it is one-sided . the title , timothy leary's dead , is taken from the name of a once popular song , which is one of the better songs on the movie's soundtrack . in the future it's not going to be what book you read , but what chemical do you use to open your mind to accelerate learning . " ) the film has brief segments with a uniformed cop and with an author to state the case that hard drugs are not good for you . the film does provide an effective study of radical non- conformity . the players in this tragedy are not ghetto dwellers , but rich kids and adults . exactly how they pulled off that miracle is never explained . although the film suffers from repetition , the candid interviews are mesmerizing in their naivete . the grainy , black and white , old video clips and the songs recreate an era that many have forgotten or never knew . the most shocking aspect of the film is not the ideas pontificated , but the picture's ending . it seems that leary , with his inflated view of the power of his brain , wanted his head frozen so his brain could be preserved for future generations . and it is as horrific as it sounds . it is not rated but would be r or perhaps nc-17 . it contains nudity , drug usage and discussion , and a gory operation . it is not a film for teenagers as the happy high priest and his friends could easily leave the impression on less questioning minds that drugs are pretty cool after all . i recommend the documentary to adults who will probably be as surprised and engrossed by it as i was . i give it * * 1/2 . with less repetition and a more balanced treatment , i could have easily rated it higher . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . review written on : june 21 , 1997 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
after recently having suffered through the press screening of joel schumacher's batman & robin , we decided to check out one of tim burton's originals . correctly criticized at the time of its release in 1992 as being too dark , it nevertheless has more imagination and energy than schumacher's latest two ( batman forever and batman & robin ) . as in all the batman films , the landscape is populated by a cornucopia of quirky characters . easily the best and only memorable performance in the picture is turned in by michelle pfeiffer as max's secretary , selina kyle . catwoman gets most of the better lines in the script by sam hamm and daniel waters . " oh , i forgot . it is her sly and understated intonation that makes the show's best line : " i am catwoman . hear my roar . " in print , it has no punch , but as delivered by pfeiffer , it has a beautiful and poetic energy . although many actors have tried to wear batman's heavy rubber suit and ended up looking silly , none more so that george clooney , michael keaton gives the most satisfying rendition . his bruce wayne and batman are dark and brooding like all of burton's films . without the levity of catwoman , batman returns would have been too much of a downer to take . the batmobile has more gadgets than any vehicle james bond ever drove . and danny elfman's dramatic music is full of symphonic power making the show resemble an elaborate and macabre opera . most of the violence is at the rock 'em , sock 'em cartoonish level , but some can be downright gory . the penguin hates the idea so much that he tries to bite off one of their noses . batman returns drags frequently , and burton has trouble controlling his dark tendencies , but still , thanks mainly to pfeiffer , it remains one of the better of an overhyped and too often unwatchably bad series . then again , since the series has generated a reported 4 billion dollars in batman merchandise sales , the quality of the films themselves are only of secondary importance . batman returns runs too long at 2 : 06 . it is rated pg-13 for sometimes gory violence . the show would be fine for kids around 8 and up depending on how sensitive they are to gore . in a somewhat marginal call , i give the film thumbs up and * * 1/2 . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
the former has a delightful imagination that rarely lags , but the latter is a rehash that drags frequently . what makes the picture is that the film is smart enough to concentrate on the fairy tale although not quite savvy enough to eliminate the many characters that simply do not work . ( this uneven farce , based on a promising script , is perhaps one of the reasons that actor stern has never directed another movie before or since . ) brickman , when he isn't inadvertently locking himself into some small space , utters such inanities as , " punctuality : without it , time stands still , " or gives out crackpot advice like using hot ice as a cure for sore muscles . the whimsical story doesn't try to make too much sense . as a soon-to-be has-been , busey is well cast . with his immature and nerdish appearance , this is essentially impossible . rookie of the year runs too long at 1 : 43 . it is rated pg but i am not sure why as the film contains nothing offensive to any age . my son jeffrey , age 8 , thought the film was " okay , but kind of boring because all they do is play baseball . " i was charmed by its fairy tale aspects , so i am recommending the movie and giving it * * 1/2 . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
people who exist only in one's imagination are common in childhood and in films . albert is played by haley joel osment in the strongest performance in the movie . haley , whom you may recognize as forrest junior in forrest gump , is as assertive as he is cute . his voice projects with an authority that surpasses many adults . director norman jewison cuts away quickly so as to remove any chance of emotional impact . throughout this uneven movie he will retain this proclivity to shy away from more than surface depth . the characters , albert being the exception , are outlined adequately , but they are only partially filled in , leaving the viewer with a frustratingly incomplete feeling . since albert is white and harriet is black , this might cause some challenges to be dealt with , but this script pays the issue scant attention . graffiti-encased newark is cast against type . rather than its usual collection of drug dealers and gangs , we see it as a friendly working class town . for those of us who have lived in new jersey , albeit not in newark , it is refreshing to see someone look upon its brighter side . although the child actor gives an excellent performance , the adults are merely adequate . depardieu plays his part whimsically , but little more . a more complex interpretation of his character would have helped . she develops little genuine chemistry with anyone else in the picture . it is plausible that harriet starts off tough . but when the inevitable emotional crack finally comes , it happens too late and too unconvincingly . notwithstanding these problems , the film does have its magical moments and none more so than when harriet and bogus are transformed in a daydream to a pair of dancers a la fred astaire and ginger rogers . this scene was presaged earlier in another movie on the television . while always pleasant and sometime downright charming , jewison's film remains strangely uninvolving . the ingredients are there but he has trouble staging them into a compelling whole . bogus runs too long at 1 : 50 . it is rated pg for a little bad language and its more serious themes . it would be fine for kids around 6 and up . my son jeffrey , age 8 , said he thought the film was " okay , but it can get a little boring at times . " since i never disliked the film and since there are several touchingly funny portions , i am giving the film a mild thumbs up and * * 1/2 . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
sometimes an audience can work against you . and the vast majority of those fortunate enough to find a place acted like card carrying members of the martin lawrence fan club . lawrence , from a thin line between love and hate and the house party series , has a happy demeanor to go with his fast and sometimes foul mouth . he's quite a likable star so i can understand part of his attraction . when lawrence , playing robber terrence paul davidson , said two words , any two words , the audience went into pandemonium . since i thought the first part was only sporadically funny , i felt strangely isolated . as pleased as i was that the audience was having such a great time , i found the audience's riotous attitude off-putting since i thought most of the initial gags in the movie only barely worked . the broadly written comedy in nothing to lose takes many risks and some of them pay off beautifully . and then again , some sink like a stone . tim robbins , who had many fewer fans at my screening , was much funnier than lawrence . after a pregnant pause , he delivers his lines with great deadpan humor . the chemistry and love between them seems genuine from the first scene . why can't a robber in a comedy just be a robber ? ( still , it does make for one joke that people in the computer field will appreciate . of the movie's farcical scenes that work , two stand out . not a great comedy , but one worth trying . it is rated r for profanity and sex . although we were shocked to see a large part of our audience under 9 and many under 6 , kids under 13 have no business being there . for teenagers , the show should be fine . i give the picture thumbs up and * * 1/2 . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
everyone in the show knows that they have signed up to do a farce so they milk the slapstick as hard they can . depending on your point of view , this film is either truly awful or so bad it is good . in either case , be warned that a little of this repetitive movie can go a long way . the best actor in the show is never seen . and when george gets shot point blank in the head , the narrator reasons with us , " george can't die because he's the star . " after the narrator , the next best parts of the film are the few special effects . most of us never seen a full grown elephant that jumps around and has all the mannerisms of a dog . george has just such a hybrid , and the elephant is the largest and most unusual version of man's best friend you are ever likely to see . imagine an elephant playing fetch . but don't leave yet . there's a funny epilogue set in las vegas . and then it does end , well sort of . the film's theme song is guaranteed to remain firmly planted in your brain for months . you'll be singing it at the office , driving your coworkers crazy . aargh , i'm doing it again . ) george of the jungle runs 1 : 32 , which is longer than it sounds . the movie is rated pg , but consider it a g and fine for kids of any age . my son jeffrey , age 8 , thought it was " great ! " i give the picture a mild thumbs up and * * 1/2 . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
the easiest put-down of the ever popular jackie chan movies is that if you've seen one , you've seen 'em all . although the statement has an undeniable truth , jackie has so much charisma that seeing him again can be a delightful little diversion . afterall , the james bond films have a remarkable sameness , but a legacy that appears endless . jackie's skills are many and his energy is boundless . his shtick can best be described as an action ballet played to the physical limits of endurance and always firmly rooted in comedy . this film , unlike his more recent ones , stays firmly in the campy vein . all of the actors have the word " farce " written at the top of their contracts , especially the bad guys , of whom there are legions for jackie to confront . jackie has played in over fifty films and directed thirteen with this one being the last he directed . cloning ? it starts with a scene that seem lifted out of indiana jones and the last crusade , which was released the year before , but director jackie stages it for much broader humor that steven spielberg did . the carefully choreographed , non-stop action sequences sometimes go awry as shown in the crazy outtakes at the end . but in the final cut of the movie proper , they would get near perfect scores from any olympic judge . jackie's attractions are many -- his teddy bear demeanor , his intense likability , his seeming vulnerability and most of all , his mastery of the delayed reaction . he does all of his own stunts , and it is a miracle that he is still alive . what operation condor lacks is a compelling story and a credible script . " stop hitting me , okay ? " ) after innumerable fighting sequences we come to the film's big conclusion set in a wind tunnel . this admittedly clever idea , goes on so long it far overstays its welcome . this fun little show , which has no pretenses , will amuse most people , but jackie's true fans may view it as a kind of masterpiece of the genre . for those of who are not fans , its laughs will be forgotten minutes after we exit the theater . it is in jarringly dubbed english . the film is rated pg-13 for the constant , but campy martial arts action . the show would be fine for kids around eight and up . i give it thumbs up and * * 1/2 . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
for those of you who thought george of the jungle was too subtle and who found dumb & dumber too intellectual , don't give up -- nickelodeon has just the movie for you , good burger . although the adults may be somewhat surprised , and perhaps a bit embarrassed , at how hard they laugh at the story's ridiculous humor , the six to eleven year old target audience will have no such reservations . " welcome to the good burger , home of the good burger , can i take your order ? " chirps the extremely likable guy with the " i'm ed " button . ed , whose iq might be too low to measure , is played with a sweet charisma by kel mitchell . sinbad clearly enjoys playing the minor role of mr . wheat . ed's stupidity borders on legendary status . ( " if you ask me , the guy's a few tacos short of a combination plate , " is how one character so aptly puts it . ) later in the film when ed is threatened with , " you better watch your butt ! " , he spins around trying . steven jordan's candy-colored design for mondo burger is exactly how disney might redesign a planet hollywood to bulk it up and make it more playful . the resulting look reminds one of willy wonka and the chocolate factory . first-time screen writers kevin kopelow and dan schneider went for a completely outlandish comedy without a hint of social relevance , and they succeeded . people all around us were laughing hard and often , albeit not as much in the second half when the show begins to run out of fresh gags and falls back a few times on that perennial favorite of slapstick , food fights . but even then , director brian robbins manages to find new ways to stage them . this terminally silly film has an undeniable charm . although the show is one i expected to hate , i fell for ed and his band of idiots . good burger runs a fast 1 : 34 . it is rated pg for a few mild profanities . the show would be fine for all ages . my son jeffrey , age 8 , and his friend steven , age 9 , thought the movie was " really , really funny . " i can't believe i'm recommending this film , but i am . there were plenty of laughs , well worth * * 1/2 . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
some movies are not what they seem to be . although on the surface it is a mystery about the search for a lost feline , in reality , it has only marginal sympathy for the missing animal . klapisch's storytelling style borrows heavily from the great eric rohmer , whose last picture released in the united states was the beautiful , episodic rendezvous in paris . klapisch has mastered the form of a rohmer film , but lacks rohmer's gift for the narrative . klapisch's plot has the same wide variety of characters , but rohmer's are more compelling . garance clavel plays chloe with such big , soulful eyes that it is hard to see how anyone would turn her down . ( in a film nominally about cats there are several such cruel references to them . ) " men have let me down , but animals , never . the scene is reminiscent of the one in which the cat is trailed in that darn cat . if , like i , you are able to guess the resolution of the missing cat mystery , it will not detract from the story . the movie's interest lies strictly in the people chloe meets . rohmer could have found her some more interesting ones , but the ones she does run into possess a certain charm . it is rated r for profanity and an explicit sexual scene . the picture would be fine for mature teenagers . i give this delicate film thumbs up and * * 1/2 . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
you're a twelve-year-old boy with a big problem . your mom's going to be home shortly , and you've got this enormous , stray dog in the bathroom that looks like it's been living in garbage and smells like dirty socks . your challenge is to coax it into the bathtub . although the dog weighs as much as you do , you engage in a wrestling match with it . you know that he loves basketball as much as you so you throw a basketball into the tub . the dog is a hyperactive wet mop that resists sitting still for more than a few seconds . solution ? all of this notwithstanding , air bud , disney's latest live action film is not a comedy , which is not to say that it isn't funny . as the bath sequence , set uproariously to " splish , splash , i was takin' a bath , " amply demonstrates , the picture can be quite humorous . positions the film firmly in the comedic camp . cast almost exclusively with relatively unknown actors , the film has a charm and a presence that is immediate . in a parallel story , a mean clown -- are there any others in the movies today ? if his entire part of the story had been either removed or at least significantly rewritten , the picture would have improved enormously . the other theme to the plot has to do with that standard formula of sports films , the team who wants to win the championship . the players on this team make the mighty ducks look like pros . never is their ascendancy to the state championship finals credible , but the movie frequently ignores the drive to win the big game anyway , which in itself is pleasantly unusual . equally surprising is that the credits tell us that " no special visual effects were used in the basketball sequences . " the most touching scenes are set outdoors . mike southon's cinematography , elizabeth wilcox's sets , and brahm wenger's dreamy music give a cold but hopeful beauty to these scenes . he has an infectiously happy smile and a huge tongue that seems forever like it wants to lick someone . the bond between josh and buddy is genuine without ever being staged for cheap sentimentality . " if you're just out there for yourself , you'll lose , " he cautions . and as shown in the trailers , this sequence is the show's funniest . it is rated pg for mayhem and would be fine for all ages . my son jeffrey , age 8 , loved it . i recommend the show to you and your whole family and give it * * 1/2 . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
" and i say this with all due respect . i have to admit , you're a babe . " leave it to beaver's june cleaver , as played with grace and delicate wit by janine turner , is a knockout . " you know what that does to me . " ) next to the surprise that the remake of the 1950's tv series is reasonably charming , the biggest surprise is that the parents -- christopher mcdonald plays a sincere ward cleaver -- steal the show . even the twelve-year-olds are interesting , but poor eight-year-old beaver cleaver , played by the numbers by cameron finley , is stuck with the least imaginative part of all . ( osmond as well as the original june , barbara billingsley , appear in brief cameo roles in the remake . the new june is much better , but don't be surprised if you pine for the old , more nefarious eddie . ) erik von detten's wally is more laid back than the original and more interested in the opposite sex . when wally spins the bottle during that quintessential adolescent ritual of old , the result is as touching as it is predictable . although the script by brian levant and lon diamond has some of the obligatory , campy scenes , for the bulk of the film the addition of a laugh track would be impossible . unlike the series , which was strictly comedy , the movie has a gentler and more serious tone . randy edelman's sweeping music has the drama of a much more substantial endeavor . combined with thomas del ruth's warm backlit cinematography and perry andelin blake's colorfully nostalgic sets , the picture beckons us to enter and enjoy even if the story gets pretty thin . " hamlet " it isn't . " if i grow up and have as dumb a kid as me , " decides beaver . " it'd be hard not to want to belt him . " the film itself succeeds in spite of , not because of , beaver's laughable stupidity . director andy cadiff has the good sense to focus on the rest of the family . it is rated pg for a couple of instances of bathroom humor . the film would be fine for any age , and i suspect that the baby-boomer parents may like it better than their kids , who are the putative audience for the picture . my son jeffrey , age 8 , thought the film was " really good " and commented that it might make his top 20 of the year list . i recommend this small pleasure to your family and give it * * 1/2 . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
intimate relations a film review by steve rhodes copyright 1997 steve rhodes okay , i admit it . i'm a sucker for true stories . in the press kit for intimate relations , first-time writer and director philip goodhew claims that ninety-nine percent of the facts are accurate . he even took the film's title from the coy term the newspapers of the time used instead of the forbidden word , " sex . " " i was just a bit of a rapscallion when i was 10 . " set in the ticky-tacky , pastel 1950s , the time's hypocritical attitudes about sex are sometimes surprising but never more so that marjorie's lechery . this sends both of them into uncontrollable fits of giggles . this is also one of the few laughs in what is a serious film about a highly dysfunctional family that gets involved in a high profile , criminal case . the sometimes kitsch sets leads one at first to think that the show will become a black comedy , which it doesn't . joyce's 14th birthday party -- full of hideous blue cake and silly cucumbers shaped like tiny alligators -- is when the troubles start . morality has no practical meaning for any of them . " i like being told what to do , " he explains . " i'm used to it . " eventually , after more twists and turns , the film comes to its somewhat predictable conclusion . the ending is the least satisfying aspect of the movie , even though it is true . it is the character study of these people up until the ending that makes the picture . human beings can do some pretty stupid things and let themselves get stuck in hopeless situations . it is rated r for sex , profanity , and violence and would be fine for mature teenagers . i give the picture a mild thumbs up and * * 1/2 . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
okay , i admit it . i'm a sucker for true stories . in the press kit for intimate relations , first-time writer and director philip goodhew claims that ninety-nine percent of the facts are accurate . he even took the film's title from the coy term the newspapers of the time used instead of the forbidden word , " sex . " " i was just a bit of a rapscallion when i was 10 . " set in the ticky-tacky , pastel 1950s , the time's hypocritical attitudes about sex are sometimes surprising but never more so that marjorie's lechery . this sends both of them into uncontrollable fits of giggles . this is also one of the few laughs in what is a serious film about a highly dysfunctional family that gets involved in a high profile , criminal case . the sometimes kitsch sets leads one at first to think that the show will become a black comedy , which it doesn't . joyce's 14th birthday party -- full of hideous blue cake and silly cucumbers shaped like tiny alligators -- is when the troubles start . morality has no practical meaning for any of them . " i like being told what to do , " he explains . " i'm used to it . " eventually , after more twists and turns , the film comes to its somewhat predictable conclusion . the ending is the least satisfying aspect of the movie , even though it is true . it is the character study of these people up until the ending that makes the picture . human beings can do some pretty stupid things and let themselves get stuck in hopeless situations . it is rated r for sex , profanity , and violence and would be fine for mature teenagers . i give the picture a mild thumbs up and * * 1/2 . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
sometimes you want to go to the movies just to get away from it all . your brain is fried , and you need to relax . for just such an occasion consider giving your mind a present of the new film love always -- a lightweight , romantic comedy and road picture that is the cinematic equivalent of easy listening music . " i believe you can't experience life from a standstill , " says the film's lead , julia , explaining her philosophy of life . " i guess i'm a militant optimist . " julia , lovingly played by marisa ryan , possesses so much charm that she overcomes the fluff of the material and makes the picture worthwhile . in a year that has already included kissed's tastefully presented necrophilia -- now , there's an oxymoron -- and crash's erotic auto accidents , it is refreshing to see some good old fashioned and romantic sex . the opening sequence for love always features romantic intercourse , filmed in a lovely haze and with ballet-like choreography . although the rest of the film is not of that high caliber , it does serve as an indication of what new director jude pauline eberhard is capable . few directors can stage sexual encounters that are both erotic and romantic . those who try too often end up with little more than cheap thrills . the script by the director features some beautiful lines but others can be so awful that one wonders how the actors kept a straight face . " i just want that somebody to be me . " now , i ask my female readers . how would you respond to such line ? how fast would you show the guy the door ? filmed in warm hues of orange and brown , this whimsical little romantic comedy manages to charm you even when the story is at its thinnest . the one-joke show has her going every direction on the compass . still , this encounter is consistent with the rest of poor julia's life . this magical little episode makes no sense , and few households have concatenated tubs , but as a magical image it works . it is rated r for sex , nudity , and profanity and would be fine for older teenagers . although this good feeling , free spirited story is of little consequence , i liked hanging out with julia enough to give the picture a mild thumbs up and * * 1/2 . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
these two actors alone , make it an interesting film . but to be fair , i think director gary fleder , whose last picture was the uniformly panned things to do in denver when you're dead , would have been hard-pressed to make a bad film with these actors . perhaps it is the tv-movie-of-the-week quality script by david klass , based on a novel by james patterson , that should reap most of the blame for not being able to fashion a credible story line out of a promising concept . i have a fairly high tolerance for implausibility , but a film that has you and your wife counting the unbelievable parts at the end is a bad sign . but still , the movie is entertaining and the acting good . if you've been in the south recently , you know this is no longer true . this hint at racial prejudice is never subsequently developed . although the common characteristics of the women are that they are gifted individuals , for example , dr . cross's niece is an accomplished violinist , they share the usual stupidity rampant in bad scripts . judd's part is smaller than it seems . in many of the scenes she has little to do other than stand around , and her acting talent is largely wasted aside from her few meaty scenes . why they didn't get lots of back-up is never fully answered . the director is fond of having characters look straight at the camera with the " i'm the one " look . and several twists are almost advertised in advanced with neon signs . -- about six car lengths and with no cars between them . it is rated r for bloody violence , a little profanity , and adult themes . the show would be fine for teenagers and probably could appear unedited for television . the performances by the leads are just barely enough for me to give the show a mild thumbs up and * * 1/2 . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
oliver stone , one of our most visceral directors , rarely makes anything but engaging films . he received oscars for his hard-hitting platoon and born on the fourth of july , but even his films like jfk , which are nothing less than balderdash , are fascinating and involving pieces of filmmaking . like him or hate him or both , his pictures are always in your face . u-turn can be argued to be one of stone's most shocking films since it is shockingly mediocre . people are likely to leave the theater neither engaged nor enraged . every frame is oversaturated with grainy colors , and the images frequently jump as if filmed with a strobe light . his obsession with panning and zooming will have you ready to cry uncle before the end of the first reel . the script by john ridley , which is based on his book " stray dogs , " relies on a stream of quirky characters to create his version of a black comedy . with stone as the director , half of hollywood shows up to take part . now , that's a part i could do . the star of the film , and the only one worth seeing is sean penn . in recent times penn's talent has become increasing evident . here , as in this year's she's so lovely , he steals the show . billy bob thornton plays darrell with a face caked in grease like a cartoon character who just walked into an explosion and with teeth that looks like he's been eating dirt . darrell flashes bobby a smile that says " i am about to take you for everything you have since i'm your only hope of getting out of this hellhole . " why aren't you one of them ? " is voight really this far gone ? why does this once excellent actor only takes roles that are caricatures ? penn saves the film , but just barely . a week after you have seen the show , only the film's bold , but repetitiously tiring cinematographic techniques will remain in your memory . nothing else about the film is unusual enough to be remembered , and that is the tragedy . has stone gone soft ? it is rated r for gore , sex , brief nudity , and profanity . the film would be fine for older teenagers . for penn's performance i give the film a mild recommendation and * * 1/2 . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . review written on : october 1 , 1997 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
jill clayburgh , whose only exceptional performance was in her academy award nominated role in an unmarried woman , has been relegated to cliched roles of domineering mothers . just the sight of his old room with its childish wallpaper causes him to vomit , which is admittedly my least favorite of all movie behaviors . davies steals the show with his sympathetic performance . affleck , excellent at boisterous , talky parts , seems out of his league in this more subtle and introspective role . gunner spends as much time admiring sonny's talents as showing off his own . she dresses in provocative attire and looks and acts gunner's age , although at 50 she is exactly twice his . when the ex-con almost smashes him , sonny informs him in no uncertain terms that , " i don't believe in god . i don't even like the guy . " as buddy , amy locane , last seen as the sexually precocious teen in the excellent but ignored carried away , gives a realistic portrayal of a woman as interested in sex as the guys but without the hang-ups . the film's limitations are many . the script by dan wakefield , based on his book , too often skims the surface . although the character of sonny is fully developed and very well acted by davies , the other characters need more depth . davies , who stared in spanking the monkey , gives such a compelling performance that he makes the picture . it is rated r for sex , nudity , profanity , and adult themes , and would be fine for older and mature teenagers . i recommend the movie and give it * * 1/2 . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . review written on : october 2 , 1997 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
what happened to the appreciation of foreign films ? although a few foreign movies such as il postino and like water for chocolate have become popular , most never even get a u . s . distributor . and the vast majority of those that do are promptly ignored . as i sat by myself in an empty theater at the press screening of guantanamera , i lamented the presence of other critics . the local weeklies , the radio station , and , most tragically of all , the local colleges chose to pass on this sweet , subtitled picture . at least the local bastions of learning might be expected to show up , but their newspapers chose not to cover it . everyone seems convinced that hollywood blockbusters and english language , usually american , independents are all that are worth seeing . end of diatribe . and its precious style will engender many a smile if few guffaws . both pictures are light-hearted farces with delightfully uplifting spirits . the colorful clothes of the women and big smiles from some of the inhabitants provide a contrast to the otherwise rampant visual gloom . ( patriotic signs , such as " socialism or die , " periodically dot the roadway . considering the conditions the people live under , the signs prove highly ironic . ) since they haven't seen each other for half a century , the happiness proves too much for her . the rest of the film is a road picture with the corpse and its entourage making its way slowly back to havana . how this could possibly save gasoline is never explained , for obvious reasons . one has only tamarind juice and another just tea and rum . one moment captures the film best . " and there are always solutions . " just bury it . it is in spanish with easy to follow english subtitles . the film is not rated , but it would probably get an r for brief nudity and a little profanity . this sweet little film would be fine kids around 11 and up . although the story far outshines the acting , i do recommend the picture and give it * * 1/2 . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
andy garcia , filmed with heavy backlighting and in a warm golden haze , plays the poet lorca as a kind of literary saint . with his suits as white as clerical robes and with his words read with the force of gospels , garcia gives a moving performance , although garcia always appears to be playing himself as much as any character . if you've recently seen him in hoodlum , you have to remind yourself that he has changed roles and is now the good guy and not the bad . juan ruiz-anchia's cinematography and gil parrondo's sets for this granada-based film are gorgeous . all the while , mark mckenzie's spanish music puts you in a dreamy mood . the story is told in flashback by ricardo , played a bit too earnestly by esai morales . although the countryside looks placid , it isn't . and like most stories of this kind , he ignores numerous warnings to leave and seems not to notice people tailing him until it is almost too late . first a character will seem a villain , and then it will be revealed that not he but someone else should be blamed for past misdeeds . the script by neil cohen , juan antonio ramos and marcos zurinaga is alive with vivid imagery when reading directly from lorca's poetry -- the best being his " . . . at five in the afternoon " poem . in contrast , the rest of the flat dialog has little resonance . " ricardo , watch yourself , " he says in a line straight out of a b-movie . " one doesn't ask certain questions . " after a series of increasing predictable plot twists , the exceedingly handsome picture makes one last switcheroo . for my money , i'd rather have junked the story and let andy garcia spend the time reading lorca's works . he did it with such flourish and panache that it would have been easy to stay for two hours of it . sadly , these recitations make up less than ten minutes of the disappearance of garcia lorca . like the cheshire cat , the story should have disappeared leaving only the poetry . the film is in english . it is rated r for violence , profanity , sex , and nudity . the film would be fine for most teenagers . although the narrative is too confusing , the poetry and the images are enough for me to recommend the film and give it * * 1/2 . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . review written on : october 6 , 1997 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
right before the ending credits roll , the fairies gather for a massive panoply of color . why the screenwriter wasted most of the rest of the movie treading water remains fairy tale : a true story's biggest mystery . although the picture has an undeniable underlying charm , it may have you squirming in your seat as it did my son , waiting for something , anything , to happen while the fairies are waiting in the wings . as proof , they borrow a camera and take pictures . since only the girls have seen the fairies , the adults must rely on the photos as proof . the show uses this and other carefully chosen ambiguity to advance the storyline . although all are perfectly acceptable , none of the actors stand out . the girls are cute and the adults perplexed , but their emotions run no deeper . director charles sturridge has trouble staging compelling scenes when the fairies are on a break , and they spend most of the film sleeping in their trailer . the trouble is that they get no more than a few minutes of screen time . and michael coulter's cinematography is warm and inviting . the special effects of the fairies are dazzling . small people with gossamer wings and radiant faces fly around as if in a particularly lovely dream . although the trailers have a high energy level , the film itself frequently drags . with its severely underdeveloped script , the movie is a big disappointment . the tragedy is that with more scenes like the ending one , the film could have been so special . with the paucity of good kid's movies , it is a shame that one with so much potential realized it in so few scenes . the film would be fine for kids of all ages . my son jeffrey , age 8 , thought the movie was good but was upset that the fairies were hardly in it at all . i'm not voting against any film with fairies this sweet no matter how uninvolving the rest of the story , so it's thumbs up from me and * * 1/2 . 
the revered director robert altman's films are populated with a dizzying cornucopia of characters that assault your emotions . although there are altman aficionados who dote on his every movie , most people are impressed by some but bored by others . for every brilliant short cuts , there is a confusing kansas city . young director paul thomas anderson's much talked about film boogie nights can be viewed as a homage to altman's style . the storyline uses the descent into hell structure . starting on an upbeat note , the players are all one happy family even if their ritual proclivities are certainly what most people would view as deviant . ( although different people will have different levels of sensitivity , i found the most shocking aspect of the film to be the amount of drug usage . there is more cocaine snorting in this one movie that i've seen in the last 500 combined . ) undoubtedly the praise for the movie , which many have already put it in the best picture of the year category , comes from the depth of the characters and the exemplary quality of the acting . this time it's " videotape " rather than " plastics . " the picture has everything in it , right down to a dance routine straight out of saturday night fever , and that is the problem . although he did both , the pictures suffers greatly from being too long . with fewer characters , tighter editing , and a more focused story , it would have been much more palatable and enjoyable . at the theater i was in , the audience all looked exhausted when they left . after a devastating ending , there is a upbeat and cutesy epilogue as if to say that we should not have taken the show or its characters too seriously . the movie boogie nights suffers from too much promise but not enough control . anderson seems to load the film up with every idea he's ever had . boogie nights is considerably better than his last film , hard eight , and i hope in his next one he uses better judgment when it comes to pruning . it is rated r for sex , nudity , violence , profanity , and massive amounts of hard drug usage . the movie is not appropriate for teenagers . 
" that was the summer of 1963 , when everybody called me 'baby , ' and i didn't mind , " says our heroine in the opening of that 1987 cult classic , dirty dancing . yes , it's been 10 years since that perennial video rental favorite was released so its time for the studio to release a new print to the theaters with a new dolby digital and sdds soundtrack . let's cut to the chase . as a movie , the cliche-ridden script by eleanor bergstein is so bad that it almost becomes unintentionally funny . easily , the worst part of the story is the self-imposed second-class citizenship of the film's male lead . " the reason people treat me like i'm nothing is because i'm nothing , " he laments in one of his typical lines . the film's saving grace is that fully a third of the film has the actors dancing rather than talking . with the academy award winning music by john denicola , donald markowitz and franke previte , the film pulsates with good spirited energy in the dance numbers . the title of the show comes from a sexually oriented dance that the kids do when the grownups are not around . certainly scandalous behavior in 1963 when the film is set , the raunchy dirty dancing still works to titillate even if no longer to shock . penny is played by the svelte and lithe cynthia rhodes -- no , not even a kissing cousin . rhodes is as poor an actor as she is an incredibly accomplished dancer . rhodes has the flexibility of a contortionist , and swayze , oozing sex appeal , is the master of the energetic and macho dance movements . being a pg-13 show , this and most of the other sex is mainly hinted at . ah , love those double meanings . triple , if you consider that the movie will feel that long when the actors aren't dancing . jennifer grey , in a relatively undistinguished career , gives her best performance ever as baby houseman . jeff jur's cinematography adds to the dance numbers . especially worth noting is his choice of baby's feet as a focal point . as baby dances on her little toes in her snow-white shoes , her innocence is actuated in ways that a full profile could never accomplish . it is in playful scenes like these that the film is at its most charming . the show pumps you up at the end with a happy dance number reminiscent of west side story . you'll leave the theater with a song in your heart and your feet tapping -- just try to forget the spoken text . it is rated pg-13 for sexual situations . it would be fine for kids ten and up . 
although no steven seagal , douglas's fury imbues d-fens with extraordinary strength . with his pasty white skin and bright white shirt , d-fens stands out in the crowd of minorities that populate most of the picture . d-fens has no safe haven . it is arguably in this scene when he most touches a nerve in all of us . the beauty of douglas's everyman performance is how polite he remains to those shocked by his bizarre behavior . his stiff , awkward walk and his sad story leave the viewer with somewhat ambiguous feelings about him . one moment you hate him , but the next he begins to generate some hidden sympathy , most notably in the fast food scene , but also in others . in contrast to d-fens's seething anger , prendergast has the relaxed look of someone about to retire . " i don't like you , " his boss admits . " you know why ? you don't curse . " i'm the bad guy ? " part orwellian morality tale and part bizarre little movie , falling down both fascinates and repulses the viewer . it is an uneven and frequently pretentious story that is never as important or dramatic as it thinks it is . still , there is a hint of truth in every scene even if overblown . when the film ends , you realize that it has touched hidden nerves in strange and unsettling ways . it is rated r for profanity and violence . the film would be acceptable for teenagers . 
even though the film suffers from its aloof and uninviting approach , the figgis genius in staging scenes is very evident albeit in frequently subtle ways . nastassja kinski , who has aged 5 years in the past 15 , gives a sweet and delicate performance as karen , a rocket scientist -- really . whereas kinski once burst with raw sexual energy , see cat woman for example , here she has a charming innocence . her reserved allure outshines snipes , who spends more time than necessary brooding . this is all on the up-and-up even if a bit risky given the close proximity of two such attractive people . all of this would probably have come to nothing had a mugging not scared them badly , thereby bringing them together physically . the intimacy of their hug speaks volumes about their feelings even when their words deny it . " and we're both adults . it is the least i can do . " cutting in and out of the shadowy images , editor john smith and cinematographer declan quinn give the scene a gossamer beauty than has a mysteriously asexual feeling . this makes the already morose max even more depressed . how could he not love someone this terrific ? ever confident wen steals all of her scenes with snipes . although max specifically points out to the audience in the opening that he is not gay , the story introduces some doubt . downey , looking too well-fed for the part , does an excellent job of acting a prolonged death . the bifurcated movie would have been better served if it had chosen one subject rather than two . just when the infidelity aspects start to become interesting , it switches to the hospital room . the problem with the picture seems on the surface to be its plodding pacing , but actually the defect has to do more with the approach figgis takes with the material . the rarely compelling movie takes an ethereal attitude about much of the activities . and everyone seems somehow removed from the material even though all of their acting , with the possible exception of snipes , is good . the ending suffers from excessive cuteness and a twist from out of left field but manages to work anyway . one night stand is a film that is less than the sum of its parts . figgis misses the mark slightly but makes an interesting picture nevertheless . it is rated r for drug usage , sex , nudity , profanity , and adult themes . it would be acceptable for older and mature teenagers . 
" my mommy always said there are no monsters , no real ones , but there are , " ellen ripley tells the audience in the opening to alien : resurrection , the latest installment in the alien saga . alien and aliens are the two of the scariest movies ever made . most horror films are horrible with the emphasis on the grossness rather than the fright . alien and aliens , on the other hand , are smartly written science fiction exercises in terror . au contraire . movie moguls are fully empowered to revive the dead for the sake of the bottom line . director jean-pierre jeunet , whose last film was the imaginative the city of lost children , and writer joss whedon from toy story stage alien : resurrection with innovation abounding . who would have ever thought of having an underwater scene in space ? and the way the meanest of the monsters is killed is effective both visually and as part of the storyline . the writing starts off crisp and mockingly funny . ( in another delicious bit of humor , you'll be relieved to know that the home shopping network , this time selling weapons , is still available in the future . ) once a valiant alien fighter , the new part human and part alien ripley keeps a mysterious smile on her face throughout most of the picture . once they are out all hell breaks loose and the show degenerates into the standard man shoots at monster , monster eats man scenario you've seen many times before . the whole long middle section of the film is repetitious , tiring , and too slow . only in the last act does the picture finally pick its genre . being sometimes grotesque but never scary , the movie gives up and decides , correctly , that it can be a very funny space comedy . although not nearly as humorous or effective as starship troopers , which never tries to be anything more than a spoof , alien : resurrection did have the audience at the press screening i attended in stitches towards the end . if only the show had made up its mind from the get-go that humor was its salvation , it could have been much better . so you ask , do they lay the groundwork for an alien 5 ? absolutely . any other silly questions ? it is rated r for nudity , profanity , and strong science fiction violence and gore . it would be fine for teenagers with strong stomachs . 
cartoons were originally just the opening act to whet the audience's appetite for the cinematic main course . walt disney changed all of that in 1937 with the first feature-length animated movie , snow white and the seven dwarfs . since then what brings people into the theaters , rather than the now ubiquitous video rental emporiums , has changed dramatically . the movies that make money these days rely heavily on star power or special effects , frequently both . young kids are seen less and less at the multiplex because studios are ignoring them . is it that fewer kids are coming and therefore the studio's wise marketeers are cutting back on kids' movies to match the decrease in demand ? yet some animated movies have been successful and a few , such as the lion king , have been incredibly lucrative . so what does it take to make a winning movie with cartoon characters ? although there is no sure and certain recipe , aside from having a disney logo , some of the ingredients include color , images , music , humor , and a compelling story . its popularity comes from a combination of all of the above ingredients , but one part stands head and shoulders above the rest -- the images , which are worthy of a master painter . this film is so beautiful that , if the sound system were to go out , you would have absolutely no reason to demand your money back . just watching the picture provides the vast majority of the enjoyment , which is not to say that the other parts have problems since they do not . although the songs are the film's weakest element , even some of them , especially " dancing bear " , are quite lovely . historians would be well advised to skip the picture for it plays fast and loose with the facts , but others will not care . this is a cartoon to entertain audiences , not an instructional video . ryan becomes the character rather than the other way around , unlike the genie in aladdin , for example , who became robin williams . if your girls are looking for a good role model , look no further . the twist is that anya may actually be anastasia . ( anastasia has a cute little dog named pooka , who , unlike most cartoon characters , does not get to talk . ) his hands fly off , his mouth falls down and he generally cannot keep himself together -- we've all had days like that . the memorable parts of anastasia are the visuals . although words cannot do them justice , let me mention a few of the best . oranges and reds dance across the screen as the heat of the flames makes the air undulate in front of the viewers . when the train crashes down into the canyon , it explodes in a fireball both realistic and gorgeous . the characters are all drawn with life-like delicacy . it is easy to go on , but the film is more to be seen than discussed . it is rated g and would be fine for the whole family . there is some potential that the littlest munchkins might be scared by rasputin , but i saw no evidence of it in our packed theater . my son jeffrey , age 8 , said he thought the show was " pretty good " and that he liked the funny doggie ( pooka ) the best . a surprised and wide-eyed dimitri remarks , " that will work . " 
such is the setting for beaumarchais : the scoundrel about the controversial playwright , spy and playboy pierre-augustin caron de beaumarchais . the movie beaumarchais : the scoundrel takes a light-hearted approach to its subject , resulting in an inviting motion picture . one of france's most expensive productions ever , the movie was a huge hit when it opened there last year . the secret of the film's success , other than the lavishness of sylvie de segonzac's costumes , has to be the performance by fabrice luchini as beaumarchais . with his glistening eyes and his infectious smile , he mesmerizes the camera and the audience . his wry little lips seem always to hint at some unspoken deviousness he is planning . with luchini's charisma , it is hard to root for anyone other than him . although he does not have half of the good looks of his assistant gudin , played by manuel blanc , he dazzles the women and the viewers with his grace and style . michael epp's warm and intimate cinematography provides a nice accompaniment to jean-marc kerdelhue's lush but realistic looking sets . jean-claude petit's music , especially the hauntingly lovely flute solos , make for an enchanting time at the movies . director jean-claude brisville , who wrote the script along with edouard molinaro , fleshed out a play by sacha guitry which , according to the press notes , was just a series of historic vignettes . the disorganization of the play still comes through at some points in the movie , but the actors smooth it over with their good-hearted style . one episode has beaumarchais working with a renegade spy who may or may not be a man . all of this may sound like a dull historical drama , but it is anything but . the story plays more like theater of the absurd than a movie based on historical facts . still , with his beguiling smile , one can never quite be sure if you should trust him . the movie , on the other hand , can be trusted to deliver a high old time . it is in french with english subtitles . the film is not rated but would be an r for some nudity and sex , and should be fine for most teenagers . 
sometimes it is in the casting phase of pre-production that a film's success is assured , and so it is with fallen , a detective story and supernatural thriller starring denzel washington as det . hoblit , the director of primal fear , that underappreciated gem from last year , takes a concept that has schlock potential written all over it and fashions it into an intensely compelling motion picture . " i want to tell you about the time i almost died , " det . hobbes tells us in the story's opening line . " i never thought it would happen to me , not at this age . " washington's warm intonation of the prescient and insightful voice-overs sets the tone for all of the key events in the drama . both are utterly confident , with a gum chewing det . hobbes relaxed and a prancing reese hyperactive . once in the gas chamber , reese bursts out singing , " time is on my side ; yes it is . " this recurring song becomes one of filmdom's most effectively chilling use of a single song . " something is always happening , " det . hobbes tells us . " but when it happens , people don't always see it or accept it . " although the other actors get fresh roles , sutherland plays his usual slightly sinister part . director hoblit's precise staging has it just right with none better than the touching scenes . with touch playing a central element in the story , he sets up a fast paced sequence on a crowded city street that gets your adrenaline pumping . as the story advances , we know more than det . hobbes , but rightly fears getting involved . the beauty of the script can perhaps best be seen in the minutia . the writer takes care in the fashioning of even the minor characters . imagine that , adult brothers who frankly admit their love without it being some fake plot contrivance . hobbes uncovers the solution to the crimes , he ridicules it at first as preposterous . as lt . stanton explains it , " people want the world to make sense . " in a nice surprise , the completely predictable ending isn't . with a few carefully chosen and completely satisfying twists , the movie's ending is one of its best parts . fallen is rated r for some violence and profanity and would be fine for teenagers . a small part is in aramaic without benefit of english subtitles . 
and to avoid any questions about his guilt , we see charles in action in the opening scene with his last victim . john gay's script uses most of the original screenplay by sally benson , alma reville , and thornton wilder . karen arthur's direction is certainly no match for the great master , but on an absolute scale , the movie maintains a high level of suspense . two mysterious and exceedingly clean-cut writers for a magazine show up to take pictures of the family for a spread on the " average american family , " but their interest is focused on uncle charles , especially on taking his picture and learning about his background . harmon is wonderfully creepy and smug , and welsh is tough but trapped . with a deft touch the director sets up each scene , several with thunderstorms , and tom neuwirth's sepia-toned cinematography makes the movie feel as if it were filmed in the 50s . my only quibble is the director's awkward staging of the final scene on the train . is hitchcock's version better ? is this one worth watching as well ? actually , yes . it is not rated but would be pg for adult themes and would be fine for kids around nine and up . 
by now i figured i'd seen every alfred hitchcock film at least a half-dozen times -- not that i'm complaining . this one , like all hitchcock films , is well worth savoring . gregory peck plays the successful and debonair barrister . unlike most hitchcock movies , which are centered on the thriller and the mystery , this one is more a romantic melodrama . in the relatively unsatisfying first half , little happens other than domestic squabbles and overtones of intense adulterous desires . as the judge's wife , lady sophie horfield , ethel barrymore got a nomination for best supporting actress -- the film's only nomination -- for an inconsequential part with which she did little of merit . ( so the big question is when does hitchcock make his obligatory walk-on ? don't miss it . ) watch how the camera angles are sometimes from the back and other times from way on high to set the exact tone for the trial's action . the end includes many devastating revelations and some nice twists so it is too bad the first half is so languid . the picture is in black and white . it is not rated but would be pg for mature themes and would be fine for kids around nine and up if they are interested . 
watch how menacing robert walker can make bruno with nothing more that a devious smile and a box of popcorn he munches nonchalantly . miriam , played like a oversexed schoolgirl by laura elliot , is pregnant but probably not with guy's baby . hitchcock is a master at setting up scenes for maximum effect . and when the camera moves to outside its entrance , we hear a scream from inside , which turns out to be nothing more than miriam yelling at one of her boyfriends with an " oh , stop that , " meaning don't do anything of the kind . in another beautifully composed sequence miriam's glasses fall off when bruno begins to strangle her . ten minutes into the film . but not to worry , guy has a rock solid alibi . hitchcock's characters , as usual , feature an everyman , guy in this movie , wrapped up in a web he has trouble breaking . hitchcock has a deft touch with his actors producing characters in predicaments that are easy to empathize with . as guy gets swept up in the story's whirlpool , hitchcock uses some classic and always effective thriller backdrops such an amusement park . more imaginative is setting up a tennis match that doesn't look like it will end soon enough as a way to ratchet up the tension . and , finally , a run-away merry-go-round provides the film's piece de resistance vehicle for terror . it is rated pg for violence and tension and would be fine for kids around nine and up . 
" remember , you're in washington . when a studio has a successful picture , as disney did in 1961 with the absent-minded professor , you can be sure that a sequel will soon be on the drawing boards . and just as the remake ( this year's flubber ) was better than the original , the sequel ( 1963's son of flubber ) also outdoes its predecessor . the sequel shines mainly because of a much more imaginative screenplay . bill walsh wrote the script for the original , but he was joined by don dagradi for the sequel . the resulting ensemble cast , with better material , clicks more often than in the original . the most notable difference is the sequel's heightened imagination and more frequent laughs . this is but one of many ideas the professor's backers have for a company to productize flubber . they've even devised a series of hokey and very funny commercials to market the substance . although some of the jokes , such as its breaking glass all over town , are repetitious and not particularly original , most of the humor is quite inventive and hilarious . in one of the show's many little one-line gems , alonzo rants at his son , " why , if you weren't deductible , i'd disown you . " the football game in this movie is much funnier than the basketball game in the original , thanks to a player bloated up with the team's secret weapon of flubber gas . " anyone who falls flat on their face is at least moving in the right direction -- forward , " the professor lectures the court at the showdown trial in the story's conclusion . the show itself is a gas and much superior to its ancestor . it is not rated but would be a g and is suitable for all ages . my son jeffrey , age 8 , said he liked the movie a lot and thought it was better than the original . 
spencer , the boy who observes this , having seen his fill of science fiction flicks , figures this thing must be a robot from outer space . with the exception of disney and a few others , most studios view children's films as a way to ship a cheap and unimaginative product and thereby make a quick profit . star kid stands out as that rare kids' film that is undoubtedly low-budget but is also highly imaginative . remember , the robot ? it wasn't one at all but rather a " phase one assault cyborsuit . " the significant twist in the story is that spencer gets to go inside the cyborsuit , and the cyborsuit , nicknamed cy , has plenty of spunk . cy keeps questioning the kid about everything including words like " cool . " and when cy speaks , we see spencer's view , the backside of cy's lips and eyes . as 12-year-old spencer , joseph mazzello from the jurassic park film series gives a remarkably good performance as a wimpy and initially tongue-tied kid . this whole setup for spencer's downtrodden and delightfully funny life makes his acquisition of some superhuman powers a source of mirth and empowerment . the ensuing mayhem has some of the home alone antics , but the slapstick is kept tightly under control by writer and director manny coto so that one never feels embarrassed to be laughing . the romantic angle is handled ever so delicately . " pllllleeeeease , i just like her that's all . " the show has many funny twists . as proof positive of the show's class , it actually contains tasteful bathroom humor -- thought that was an oxymoron in a kids' picture , didn't you ? the director's staging of this sequence is one of the film's more charming moments . oh , and eating is pretty funny too . and the action sequences in the battle manage to be quite respectable for a kids' show full of inventiveness and lacking the usual repetition . for a family movie mixing humor , fantasy , and action , star kid delivers . although it's probably not the sort of movie you'd want to see without kids , with them you'll have a magical time with a relatively straightforward but well developed story . you'll be rooting for and laughing with spencer and his buddy cy all the way through . it is rated pg for fantasy combat . although the basically cartoonish broodwarrior might scare the littlest kids , i saw none of this in evidence in our packed screening , so i would say the show is fine for kids five and up , and possibly the younger ones . my son jeffrey , age 8 , got really excited about the picture . he called it " an especially good movie " and gave it * * * * . 
" you can't believe the relief it was to feel the pain , " danny flynn tells his ex-sweetheart , maggie . daniel day-lewis in another of his meticulous performances plays danny in the boxer . in an underwritten role , she manages to shine with her intensity and sincerity . the chemistry between them is taut and real . a beautiful story with wonderful performances by an ensemble cast , it suffers a single but all-encompassing problem , the over-restrained tone set by the director , jim sheridan . sheridan , whose previous films with daniel day-lewis were my left foot and in the name of the father , normally brings emotional fire to his subjects , but this time he takes a too cerebral approach to the material . you can almost feel him keeping his actors' emotions in check . at certain points in the story , when things are going most awry with danny , the picture comes into its full glory , but at others it just hints at what could have been . sheridan's meticulous staging of the ira activities at the time of a truce has an almost documentary authenticity . harry doesn't trust anyone , least of all someone from the other side offering an olive branch . the result makes for an unglamorized view of the ira's inner workings . a disappointing show but a powerful one without a bad performance in it , it never quite engages the audience . the last third of the story , especially the ending , where things don't go according to plan brings out some of the strong passions that are rarely in evidence in the rest of the picture . even given its flaws , its haunting images are likely to stay with you for a while . it is rated r for violence and profanity and would be fine for teenagers . 
although the buzz about writer and director alan rudolph's new film afterglow surrounds the astonishing performance by julie christie , the film offers many other delights . besides her oscar-caliber work , other stars shine in rudolph's wonderfully complex and intentionally ambiguous film . certain to invoke conversations afterwards , the film exercises viewers' minds and emotions . equal parts romance , tragedy and comedy , it starts slowly but soon finds its legs . by the end , you will be wrapped up in this four-person drama and feel like you are wishing your quirky , old friends good-bye . as 57-year-old , b-movie actress phyllis mann , julie christie delivers her best performance in several decades . and toyomichi kurita's radiantly lovely cinematography sets the scenes in rich and hazy colors . " i trust the ones who never sleep around but feel like getting lucky , " he explains . ( his name takes on many meanings and is a constant source of puns in the show's deliciously funny script , full of biting wit . ) when she puts on clothes , she fidgets constantly -- if i pull this part down a bit maybe i'll be sexier , or maybe adjusting this would be better . " there won't be a iv . " i live up to the very edge of my charm , " he tells her in what he deludes himself into thinking is a good come-on line . " you're the most fascinating woman i've met in my entire life , " he tells her . " yes , i know , " she fires back with complete confidence . the body of the story can't be described without giving away some dramatic and relatively unexpected twists in the plot . suffice it to say that it builds with a furious pace . the deliberately ambiguous ending beautifully wraps up four complicated lives as well can be expected . the upbeat conclusion has a carefully constructed symmetry that does not suffer from the usual bastardization caused by too many test screening . it is rated r for profanity , sex and brief nudity and would be fine for mature teenagers . 
trekkies , roger nygard's energetic and hilarious documentary , brings viewers into the world of the star trek conventions . the beauty of the film is that it is good old fashion fun for trekkies and non-fans alike . ( the film generally writes off the trekkies vs . trekker polemic as not worth arguing about . ) the good-spirited movie trekkies easily forces even the most cynical viewer into fits of uncontrollable , loud giggles , yet the picture treats its subject matter with respect and a certain awe . in the opening credits the movie reminds us that trekkies are the only fan group listed in the oxford english dictionary ( oed ) . unless you've been to the conventions , i posit that you have no idea of the dedication of some of the fans . one pointed out , apologetically , that the stripe on his new uniform was slightly inaccurate . others talked about how many star trek conventions they had attended , several dozen being typical and hundreds not unheard of . arguably the most famous of all the trekkies , she wears her uniform every waking hour as many die-hard fans do . she doesn't quite understand all of the uproar . along with the laugher the show evokes , there is an equal measure of sincere appreciation for people with such loyalty . and their infectious joy provokes a certain envy of their enjoyment . few other avocations could give this much satisfaction . ( for the record , i'm not a star trek fan although i have seen some of the movies . ) the film interviews the various star trek series's stars as well as its fans . at one , the actor who plays q was so sick that he thought he would have to cancel . with dedication comes a certain amount of stupidity . not just flitting among people , the documentary takes the time to let you get to know the trekkies . the movie bogs down only briefly when it tries to argue the series's larger meaning about diversity and humanitarian concerns . sandwiched in-between the levity , the switch in tone doesn't work . he fits right in . trekkies runs a breezy 1 : 26 . it is not rated but would be pg for brief sexual references and would be fine for all ages . 
no . this time it's a relatively simple briefcase with a tear gas canister , extra ammo , a rifle with an infrared sight , a bunch of gold coins and a hidden knife . featured attractions of the bond films are the exotic locales -- istanbul and venice are prominently featured this time , especially the spires of their skylines which seem to reach for the heavens . along with the images comes more great bond music by composer john barry . from russia with love contains easily one of the hokiest scenes of any bond film . surprise , bond lives , but at least the wrestling farce is broken up . unlike the first movie , dr . no , which rarely flagged , this one has too many slow parts that fail to keep the viewers' attention . but any bond film starring connery remains a delight to watch . in my favorite small scene , we learn of one of the few times that bond missed a clue . " 'red wine with fish' that should have told me something , " bond laments . it is rated pg for violence and sexual innuendo and would be fine for kids around nine and up . my son jeffrey , almost 9 , thought from russia with love was a really good movie but liked dr . no , the only other bond film he has seen , much better . and again , his only complaint was that it had too much kissing . 
sometimes the most dated parts of an old film can be the most enjoyable ; so it is with bond's fifth movie , thunderball . the giveaway ? for my almost 9-year-old son it was an entirely different scene that won his heart . the tension is on . thunderball goes back to the caribbean where the first bond film was set , but this time it is the bahamas rather than jamaica . poor bond has to drive an aston martin just like the last movie -- later bond films were less interested in such recyclables . the casting of adolfo celi as largo and his playboyish costumes makes largo less like a villain than a rich member of the international yacht club . might as well have worn a cia t-shirt . thunderball , which relies a bit too much on a larger than normal bevy of beauties to carry the story along , needed the writers to have spent more time in plot development . the movie could have used crisper editing . some of the underwater sequences in particular run on way too long , especially a full scale underwater battle between a couple of hundred men . the staging becomes confusing and it is frequently not clear who is ahead or what is happening . life's like that when you're the world's most handsome spy . it is rated pg for violence and sexual innuendo and would be fine for kids around nine and up . my son jeffrey , almost 9 , liked the movie a lot , especially the jetpacks and the full-scale underwater battle . 
you can almost feel the great master sculpting mccrea's face to fit the story . although the two leads' love story is secondary , the chemistry between the them is genuine and makes for an interesting little side plot . hitchcock , ever the master at the staging of a thriller , films the killer's escape with the camera high above the crowd . in the heavy rain you can feel the tension without seeing it or even witnessing the looks on the faces of the crowd . ( so when does hitchcock appear in the movie ? 13 minutes into the picture he is shown clearly walking down the street reading a newspaper . ) using hitchcock's favorite theme of one man against a multitude , the correspondent bravely holes up in a windmill to keep an eye on a host of bad guys -- dutch and german . with a huge collective sigh of relief we realize that our hero is saved and has not been detected afterall . hitchcock doesn't need to show violence to frighten . although made in a time when special effects did not so dominate movies as they do today , the film ends in a dramatic and fairly realistic disaster . the picture is not the best of hitchcock's body of work , but it is quite a well done film and well worth looking for . it is not rated but would be pg for violence and adult themes and would be fine for kids around ten and up . 
the second craft the loyal bond audience knows in an instant that it is spectre up to its old tricks and not the russians . the 1967 film you only live twice has arguably its most surprising moment during the opening credits . although it is based on an ian fleming novel , the screenplay is by none other than roald dahl , the classic author of such dark children's tales as matilda and james and the giant peach . no one could ever read one of his children's books without being mesmerized by his shockingly bleak but highly literate writing . even more surprising than his being chosen to adapt a bond novel is that none of dahl's gifts for dark humor or sparkling writing is evident . although the script is good , it is a direct descendent of all of the preceding bond scripts and breaks no new ground . ( as the title suggests , bond is killed early on , but it is merely a in order to identify himself to the japanese spy network he is given a password of " i love you , " which provides opportunities , largely underutilized , for funny encounters . other gadgets of warfare . it's so fast moving and highly maneuverable that four full-sized attack helicopters are no match for its adroitness . not all of the technology is as impressive as little nellie . when spectre's rocket lands , the cheap model looks like a parody of an old flash gordon film . the not particularly impressive result is a slightly different bond with a few new fighting skills . bond , who has bedded half of the good looking women of the world -- the joke is that she turns out gorgeous afterall . why he has to go through with an elaborate wedding ceremony makes little sense , but this is a bond film so logic is largely irrelevant . connery , who was full of energy and confidence in his previous bond outings , seems to be losing heart and interest in this film . he said afterwards that he'd " never " do another one . you only live twice runs 1 : 57 . it is rated pg for violence and sexual innuendo and would be fine for kids around nine and up . my son jeffrey , almost 9 , liked this movie but still liked thunderball the best and dr . no second best of the first five bond films . 
sphere , the latest michael crichton novel to be brought to the screen , is a physical and psychological thriller that keeps you on the edge of your seat . barry levinson , the director of the excellent and topical movie wag the dog as well as his academy award winning rain man , brings just the right blend of fast-paced action sequences and slower mental exercises . using some of the same scientific deduction techniques as last year's contact , the movie involves your brains as well as your emotions . good film critics develop a sense of what is enough to tell their readers about a movie to give them a feel for it without giving away key plot twists . sphere tests the abilities of critics since several elements of the story that are best left unmentioned are so central to the critique of the movie . i will , as always , try to strike the right balance and in the case of sphere probably give away much less than other reviewers since it is the delight of the surprise that makes this movie so interesting and involving . full names are mandatory in such situations . continuing with her recent movie tradition , stone has no romantic scenes of any kind . the script interlaces just enough humor with the terror to keep from exhausting the audience . " atheist , but i'm flexible , " norman replies with a nervous laughter . the best parts of the movie are not the scary parts , of which several had me jumping in my seat , but the ones where they spend the time to consider the scientific implications of what is happening . he reasons that an alien with emotions is a scary proposition since beings that are happy can turn angry just as easily . with headings like chapters of a book the movie races to its conclusion . as the tension ratchets up , the film has trouble sustaining its momentum . by the last half hour , the picture begins to bog down , and it ends in its hokiest scene of all . i would love to know what the changes were . please drop me a line if you know . ) even though they lose it somewhat in end , the film has so much intelligence and energy than it is well worth seeing . ( there i did it . i got through the whole review without even mentioning the sphere itself , among many other things . it is rated pg-13 for sci-fi action and scary scenes and would be fine for kids around eleven and up , depending upon how prone they are to nightmares . 
and she didn't just say it , she almost panted it . wearing a tight , low-cut pastel sweater , she was not a woman you'd want to refuse . watch out for people with such false modesty . ) well not exactly . but , as the press notes aptly say , " nothing is 'that' easy . " set in the bright florida sun , palmetto may not look like a film noir , but it is firmly routed in that genre . frequent thunder without rain means the characters sweat profusely in the thick humidity . although several of the plot elements are easy to predict , many aren't . the excellent actor woody harrelson gives a surprisingly self-controlled and almost pensive performance . ( " i was in it right up to my ears , and no idea how i was going to get myself out . " ) woody takes a more subtle approach to the role that he typically has to others . the result is a character who seems quite genuine . " i tried writing but nothing comes out , " harry tells us in voice-over . " there's nothing worse than a writer who has nothing to say . " well screenwriter e . max frye's adaptation of james hadley chase's novel , " just another sucker , " has a lot to say . although little of it breaks any new ground , the movie by german director volker schlondorff thoroughly entertains . you won't feel cheated like harry . and you'll get your money's worth as the twists and surprises accelerate as the movie races to its conclusion . palmetto runs 1 : 52 . it is rated r for sex , violence and profanity and would be fine for mature teenagers . 
in his third outing as bond , roger moore becomes totally comfortable with his role and puts his own relaxed style into the part . his dark blue double breasted tuxedo fits so perfectly that he seems to have worn it and the bond role since birth . is there no end to bond's skills ? q , too , comes through as always , this time with an unlikely gadget of a killer tea tray . nothing less than armageddon -- not to be confused with this coming summer's blockbuster movie , armageddon , in which bruce willis will save planet . continuing in the grand bond tradition , much of the movie is filmed in exotic locals , this time amid the alabaster-colored stone of the sphinx and other massive egyptian monuments , as well as in the surrounding deserts . the movie's theme song as well as bond's famous theme add up to a musically pleasurable experience . and to remind us of another great film set in the desert , as 007 and xxx head off walking in the wilderness , the theme from lawrence of arabia comes up loudly . although barbara bach's acting as xxx may make you yearn for the tougher female leads like honor blackman as goldfinger's pussy galore , you have to appreciate bach's grace and beauty , especially in her seductive and low-cut , tight-fitting gowns . and be reassured that barbara bach is certainly someone whose body looks like it may generate some considerable heat . bond drives the car off a pier and pushes the button that neatly retracts the wheels and turns it into a sub , one which looks like it might be featured in the neiman marcus christmas catalog for the superrich . ingenuity is one of the hallmarks of the bond films . in this one , the way james figures a way into an impregnable control room is quite imaginative . in another variation on the traditional bond ending , our hero and heroine end up conveniently in a floating circular bed with white cushions and a properly chilled bottle of 1952 dom perignon . being international spies does have its rewards -- for men and women alike . the spy who loved me runs 2 : 05 . it is rated pg for sexual innuendo and comic violence and would be fine for kids around nine and up . my son jeffrey , almost 9 , liked it although he preferred moore's previous bond film , the man with the golden gun . he didn't like the character jaws in this one because he was too " undefeatable . " 
if you drop in a few minutes late to the fugitive , part ii , actually titled u . s . marshals , don't be surprised if it looks like con air , part ii . but you don't want to be tardy to u . s . marshals since you'll miss the opportunity to laugh at the movie's most ridiculous scene -- tommy lee jones dressed up in a big , yellow chicken suit as his disguise in the picture's opening bust . acting with so much camaraderie that they seem more like a sports team than law enforcement officers , they possess enough adrenaline and drive to follow criminals all over the globe , or at least the united states . executive decisions's director stuart baird demonstrates ample skill in staging the action sequences for maximum effect . equally notable is his restraint in not over using them to move the storyline along . although the fast-paced show contain some great special effects , the simpler ones are even better . this scene also best shows off editor terry rawlings's talents in dazzling but never confusing the audience . andrzej bartkowiak's cinematography deserves special mention . in the movie's weaker department , writer john pogue's script needs cleaning up . some characters , most notably sam's boss , played without genuine emotion by kate nelligan , merely clutter up the narrative without adding value . another wasted role is that of sheridan's girlfriend , who serves absolutely no purpose at all . ( well , her character's job does generate the movie's most blatant product promotion . ) the negative chemistry between sam and john provides some of the show's best tension and humor . downey's acting is especially remarkable for its steely passion and total focus . although downey's character is not a comical one , he gets as many good one-liners as does jones in his leading role . but the script does suffer the problem of most of today's thrillers , delivering highly predictable and equally unnecessary twists at the end . a more straightforward chase picture would have been better . and why , oh why does the lead always feel a need to go mano a mano with the killer ? it is rated pg-13 for violence and language and would be fine for kids around ten and up . 
the big lebowski , the coen brothers' latest cornucopia of colorful characters , shares more with their earlier 1987 movie , raising arizona , than their recent oscar sensation , fargo . a zany comedy about a hippie bowler and his bowling buddies covers the cinematic map . mixing everything from a million-dollar ransom of an ex-porn actress to bowlers dressed in horned-wagnerian costumes and dancing in busby berkeley-style choreography , the coen brothers leave few topics untouched . although the dream sequences are by far and away its high points , the film does devote some energy to sketching the outlines of a plot . but if you demand a strong narrative drive and characters who are more than just loony , this probably isn't the picture for you . it all starts when the dude , played with a freeze-dried hippie look by a perfectly cast jeff bridges , gets attacked by a bunch of germans , who are either nazis or nihilists . and , you guessed it , the transfer of the money is less than successful . ( the movie could easily spawn a prequel about the dude's life . as an ultra-competitive bowler named jesus quintana , john turturro gives the show's most outlandish performance . of the aforementioned dream sequences , the best called " the gutter ball " and set to the music of " i just dropped in to see what condition , my condition is in . " many other scenes are ones that only ethan and joel coen could contrive . still , the movie is more fascinating than funny , one you're more likely to discuss afterwards that laugh at while it is playing . although the movie engenders many a nice chuckle , more often you're likely to be thinking a silent " wow " to yourself . " so what do you do for recreation , " maude asks the dude . " oh , bowl , run around , and the occasional acid flashes , " the perpetually stoned dude replies . he may not have much of a life , but it's his life . it is rated r for profanity , violence , nudity and drugs and would be acceptable for teenagers if they are older and mature . 
nishi , admittedly , has even more on his mind . knowing exactly how to direct himself , he lets the camera linger on his delicate array of expressions . with only minute variations in his facial expressions , he manages to convey a wide range of emotions . a tour de force performance , his work is almost matched by the equally impressive and even subtler piece of acting by kayoko kishimoto as his wife . in a movie with sparse dialog -- easily half of the scenes have none at all -- and an absolutely minimal plot , the masterful camerawork by hideo yamamoto becomes the film's glue . sometimes paying respect to the actors , the camera stops and observes without moving as you would at an art gallery . other times , in the scenes of intense violence , we will have a look so quick that if you blink you may miss it . the overall tone of the picture , thanks especially to jo hisaishi's melancholy music of violins , piano , and flute , is one of serenity in the face of upcoming loss . beneath the characters' almost stoic look burns a caldron of pent-up emotions that seems ready to explode at a moment's notice like an overheated boiler . the poignant tale has us eavesdropping on lives of pain and joy . eventually , it comes to a perfect ending . with the subtlety of the rest of the script , the resolution is not shown , but the staging leaves no doubt . its scant dialog is in japanese with english subtitles . it is not rated but would be an r for brief scenes of strong violence and would be fine for older teenagers . 
unlike those who think documentaries exist only in the landscape of serious ideas like the study of famine or repression , michael moore sees the genre in a completely different terrain . he envisions the art form as a way to mix theater of the absurd with standup comedy , and he wraps this all around a serious subject . in his latest movie , the maker of the famous roger & me tackles the issue of corporate downsizing in america . but don't be taken in , this is just a ruse to let moore demonstrate his considerable talent as a comedian . in one of the funnier movies this year , the big one takes an unabashedly one-sided position on a subject that it really cares little about and produces one funny sequence after another . pat buchanan's check , for example , was from abortionists for buchanan . moore's response in the film is to show pictures of the lincoln bedroom and say his problem was that he just didn't donate enough to get any of the perks . this fast-paced documentary veritably pulsates with energy . using music as charged as the film's star and editing it with a deft touch , the movie never flags even if the last half does begin to get repetitious . the show is at its most awkward when moore meets people who have actually been downsized . the bottom line is that , as social commentary , the film is an abysmal failure , but , as comedy , it delivers . ( it also has the misfortune of being released in a time when we have the lowest unemployment rate in several decades , so the tragedy of downsizing is no longer on many newspaper headlines or many people's minds . ) although the jubilant moore tries his best to make him look foolish , knight finds the whole episode hilarious , laughing through almost every minute of it . so where does the title of the movie come from ? in the funniest segment of all , moore discusses how we could better market " the united states of america . " he proposes we rename our country , " the big one , " since that's how we see our place in the world anyway . he goes on to propose the music , " we will , we will - rock you , " as a more powerful national anthem , cutting to a pumped-up crowd singing it while lasers pulsate around them . it is rated pg-13 for some strong language and would be fine for kids around twelve and up . 
if it comes to a city near you , as it is now in our area , you'd better see it immediately or it'll be history before you can blink an eye . and being easily one of the most unusual family films in years , you don't want to let this one slip by you . even if you haven't got any kids - the adults outnumbered the children in our saturday matinee audience by 10 to 1 - you don't want to miss out on this little delight . writer and director terry jones sticks fairly close to the story and the cadence of the original kenneth grahame novel . and his players approach their parts almost reverentially as befits such a classic . it is not until the movie's midway point , during toad's trial , that the actors begin to really cut loose with the comedy . up until then they keep the humor on the subtle side , which is fine since it is in its delicacy and beauty that the film is most effective . if you're looking for a cartoonish action picture , in which stupidity reigns supreme and bonks on the head are the height of comedy , this isn't it . as filmed by con air's cinematographer david tattersall , the radiant picture has a golden autumnal look . every one of the daylight scenes appear to have been filmed when the sun was low on the horizon , basking everything in a loving glow . the man in the iron mask's costume designer , james acheson , came up both with the magical costumes that carefully evoke each actor's animal and with the sets worthy of a disney theme park attraction . ( in fact , those who have been to disneyland will cherish mr . toad's wild ride even more after seeing it acted out in the movie . ) the evil weasels , for example , have long orange coats and hair , dark elliptical sunglasses , and devilish little mustaches . and so forth through all of the other animals . nicol williamson is the take-charge badger . although played fairly straight , the show's outlandish touches , such as toad's long tongue that he uses to catch flies and even to help him escape , are done sparingly . the movie has not only dialog but a bit of singing as well . the whole story is developed in such an offbeat and methodical manner that many people , especially kids , may not know quite what to make of it . if they've read the book , it probably helps , but those looking for the traditional movie-going experience may be mystified by this one . for those with an open mind and heart , the picture is a treasure worth savoring . don't miss this delicate mixture of tenderness and whimsy . if you wait , it'll be gone as fast as toad in one of his motor cars . it is rated pg for fanciful villainy and would be fine for all ages . my son jeffrey , almost 9 , and his friend george , age 7 , thought the film was good , especially the scene in which the heroes dance on the table while punching the weasels . 
for the second time in two days , we were fortunate to be able to see an excellent family film that is playing in highly limited distribution in short runs around the country . and this film was that rarest of such movies , the serious drama , where it is people and not some cute animals that are in grave danger . as the grandpa , james cromwell , made famous by babe and seen more recently in l . a . confidential , gives an understated and deeply moving performance . joseph ashton plays little tree with a compelling earnestness . the bond between little tree and his grandpa is as strong as you are likely to see . moreover , the genuine chemistry between all three of them is bursting with love . ( as part cherokee myself , like little tree from my paternal grandmother , the film had special meaning for me . and even more so given my son is little tree's age . ) mark isham's music relies heavily on the fiddle and the dulcimer to evoke the hillbilly spirit of the backwoods in the 1930s . the beauty of the story is its lack of sanitization , normally prevalent in kids' movies . the grandpa doesn't have some uplifting job . grandpa is even given to cussing a little , as grandpas will , especially backwoods ones . with big eyes , little tree absorbs every word of it . actually , most of the whites treat them like lepers . as adapted by the director richard friedenberg from forrest carter's book , the flaw of the story , to the extent that it has one , is that it does become a bit preachy at times . but if it does rant a bit , its heart is in a good place , and the polemics are fairly mild . full of the tragedies of the time , we see that adults , albeit not little tree's grandparents , felt it perfectly appropriate to hit kids over the head with canes and to whip them with belt buckles . this bit of americana is rarely shown anymore in the cinema . with a clear opportunity to stop at a classic feel-good point , the story plows on and shuns the easy ending . the one it chooses left me literally in tears , and yet it is so beautifully done and so hopeful for the future that i left the theater feeling an inner peace . it is rated pg for language and thematic elements including " old fashioned " discipline and would be fine for kids around 9 and up . my son jeffrey , almost 9 , thought the show was okay , but a little too sad . ( the film provided a perfect springboard for my father , who accompanied us , to discuss his feelings about the movie and his heritage with jeffrey , who during the film was clearly touched by it . ) 
as the petticoats fly , the kids in grease engage in wild dance gymnastics . in this parody of the 50s made from the perspective of the late 70s , their ages present no problem . a new print with a remastered dolby soundtrack has been released to the theaters to celebrate the movie's twentieth anniversary . although travolta's saturday night fever , which he made the year before , would have been more deserving of a reissue , grease is nostalgic , silly fun that is well worth another run . and for those , like this reviewer , who haven't seen the film in a long time , they may be surprised at how raunchy the humor is . there's even a hilarious condom scene that happens in the backseat of a car parked at one of those infamous lover's lanes that were so popular in the 50s and 60s . for a pg movie - they didn't have pg-13 in 1978 - the humor is surprisingly frank . today , it seems hard to believe that neither travolta nor newton-john was the first choice for the roles . in fact , newton-john wasn't even sure if she could act the part , so she demanded a screen test first to see if she was credible . rizzo , played with a beautiful swagger by stockard channing , provides the hard-edged contrast this cream puff of a movie needs . the most compelling reason to see the movie is none of the above . it is the energetic and good-spirited song and dance numbers in which the movie really comes alive . although none of them are great , they all go down as easily as a chocolate malt from the kids' favorite soda fountain . it is rated pg for sexual humor and situations and for brief male nudity . although there were girls seven and younger in our audience , i am going to be conservative and recommend the picture for kids around 10 and up , given the very explicit sexual humor and situations in the movie . 
post coitum is an unusual film about human sexual relations - both because it's told completely from the woman's perspective and because it shows graphically but always tastefully the heat of passion . most movies about adultery have a quick tryst and then the character spends the rest of the movie in anguish . when the movie turns tragic , rouan the director should have retained better control of rouan the actor , but in the protagonist's downfall , as in her ecstasy , her emotions are quite palpable . the movie is encumbered with two needless side-plots . eliminating both would have made for a cleaner narrative . if someone had defended diane's actions , they might argue that she loved too much and none too wisely . the movie is in french with english subtitles . it is not rated but would probably get an r for nudity , graphic sex , and profanity . the movie is not appropriate for teenagers . 
too many movies these days aren't smart enough to realize they would have been infinitely better recast as parodies - firestorm and hard rain come immediately to mind . arguably the best thing that can be said about the big hit is that it is smart enough to realize how dumb it is and to make the most of it . never taking itself seriously , even for a moment , the movie features silly dialog ( " ladies , you're so fine i want to pour milk over you and make you a part of my complete breakfast . " ) and shoot 'em up action played for maximum camp . cisco and the other members of his crew like to show off their buff bodies , and the picture includes some conspicuous rear male nudity to titillate the audience . taavo soodor's set decoration is a hoot . but this funny subplot is basically unprintable . among the movie's more absurd scenes is a car chase and demolition derby , during which cisco uses his car like paul bunyan to fell the big trees in his path . the movie even uses instant replays to show you exactly how the characters manage to escape certain death . well , lots of bad things do happen in the hit men . and its director kirk wong has the audience laughing at most of them . it is rated r for violence , profanity and brief nudity and would be fine for teenagers . 
" don't forget , i'm a lawyer . dark comedies are among the most overused genres in hollywood . many directors think that all they need to do is to turn down the lights , get a bunch of angst-filled actors , find an outlandish script and , voila , they've got a film noir a la quentin tarantino and a recipe for instant riches . although many have failed , director peter o'fallon manages to make an intelligent and funny picture out of well-worn materials . suicide kings , which has nothing whatsoever to do with suicide , delights sheerly through the strength of its execution rather than the freshness of its plot . they know who they are abducting , but they do not quite appreciate his cleverness or his tenacity . walken , who manages to shine in movies good and bad , is at the top of his form here . although he spends almost the entire picture lashed to a chair , his words and his devious smile command our complete attention . this fast paced film is a lot of fun , and walken seems to be enjoying every minute of it . in a scene reminiscent of pulp fiction , vecchio argues in his car with his sidekick about a wide variety of issues from why vecchio paid $1500 for a pair of " fish skin " boots to why he gave $500 to a bum with a bucket . leary , in a beautifully controlled performance , keeps the repartee going without ever missing a beat . the already complicated plot gets even more so when barrett finds out that there's an " inside player . " i figured it out who it was right away , but that isn't important . it is the dynamics and the tension that ensues that creates rewarding viewing , not the mystery . at one point , barrett , taped to the chair , fusses to his incompetent hosts that he's about to die of boredom . although his complaint turns out to be a ruse , boredom is a calamity unlikely to afflict the audience . it is rated r for profanity and sporadic , strong violence and would be fine for older teenagers . 
he got game , writer and director spike lee's indictment of the pressure put on young athletes , starts with a beautifully choreographed homage to the sheer joy of shooting hoops . filmed in slow motion by malik hassan sayeed , the camera caresses the ball in golden sunshine as it spins high in the air on its way to the basket . easily the most striking choice lee made for the film was that of the score . heavy doses of aaron copeland music dominate the handsomely photographed picture with smaller doses of rap music to contrast with the classical . long after viewers have forgotten the storyline they'll remember the film's sounds and sights . in a monotone performance lacking much depth , real-life basketball star ray allen plays jesus shuttlesworth , the number one high school basketball prospect in the nation . and what he doesn't have people want to give to him , albeit most of it illegally and with strings attached . slowly and deliberately the story makes us realize that there are many rewards , from sex to " loans , " that jesus is more than happy to accept as compensation . this jesus is tempted but isn't always strong enough to refuse . washington , playing a poor african-american rather than the well educated , middle-class one that he normally plays , makes jake into a believably complicated individual , a likeable guy but one with many faults . the movie has several problems other than ray allen's limited acting ability . the story has too many minor characters , including john the film's female characters , with the exception of jesus' younger sister , exist only for sexual gratification or temptation . concluding with the same sense of magic with which it began , the film manages to take the cliche of the big game that ends most sports movies and give it a whole new spin . it is rated r for sex , nudity , violence , profanity , and brief drug usage and would be fine for older teenagers . 
what the house of the spirits director bille august is trying to say with his version of the movie that has not been said so many times before remains unclear . although he assembles a strong cast to tell a powerful story , he has trouble breathing much life into it . most scenes are staged strictly by the book with only the brilliance of the source material and the extremely handsome production raising the picture above the ordinary . jorgen persson's cinematography dazzles the eyes with its lush colors . and the romantic music by basil poledouris has best seller written all over it . shine's academy award winner geoffrey rush , as inspector javert , proves to be the film's most troubling choice . unlike the highly emotive and agitated character in shine , rush makes the key role of the story's villain into a lifeless enigma with a single facial expression that looks like a head from mount rushmore . one wonders why the director didn't snap his fingers and ask rush to get with the program . thurman turns the character into a mawkish cliche . she is the only one to demonstrate strong emotions , both tragic and romantic . in the film's final battle sequence , complete with the killing of small children i should warn you , the movie gets the energy so absent from the body of the picture . a disappointing film that can be strangely cold and antiseptic , its wonderful story and its production save the day in the end . but if you don't want to see this version , you can rent one of the others or wait a few years for the next one . les miserables runs a bit long at 2 : 09 . it is rated pg-13 for violence and for some sexual content and would be fine for kids around twelve and up . 
the studios like remaking old movies with proven storylines , and if one studio gets a new idea , like killer volcanoes or attacking comets , then other studios want to ride on their coattails by making a similar movie but with different stars . you can accuse warren beatty , star , director , co-writer and co-producer of bulworth of many shortcomings , but willingness to take risks isn't one of them . his political version of liar liar uses a comedic setting to say all of those things you're not supposed to say , even in the movies . full of racial insults and humor , the movie is astonishingly frank , funny , outrageous and obnoxious . and sometimes all in the same line of dialog . it's the 1996 primary season , and the presidential candidates from the major parties are singularly uninspiring . beatty , in one of the better performances of his career , looks completed wasted . if ever a man looked like his brain had just snapped , it is he . " you're stuck with us , " he concludes , almost gleefully . and if that isn't enough , senator bulworth really flips out . the movie almost turns into a musical as the senator begins to sing most of his lines with a rap rhythm . remember this is politics and the best spinmeisters can make any disgusting trait seem at least forgivable and perhaps even laudable . as much as you may want to admire a film this daring and incredibly funny , the ragged script contains whole sections that go nowhere . a typical one of these has nina delivering a political dialectic that sounds like a paragraph out of a graduate political science textbook on marxist economic theory . these parts grind the comedy to a halt . it is rated r for drug usage , profanity , and a little violence and would be fine for older teenagers . 
most directors are happy to imitate others . jaglom makes very personal movies , stamped with his own style . even his mediocre films such as last summer in the hamptons and babyfever have flashes of brilliance . in his best movies like the incredible always - not to be confused with the steven spielberg fantasy of the same name - he can sustain that superlative level for the entire picture . deja vu , although uneven , remains a dreamy romance that at its best has the magic of a fairy tale . the bright script by jaglom and his wife victoria foyt , who is one of the movie's two leads , never ceases to delight us with its little mysteries as well as its major romantic overtones . like a home movie that needs more editing - jaglom is the editor as well as the director - the picture fascinates us even while its needless drifting frustrates us . deja vu is jaglom's homage to romance , particularly those once in a lifetime romantic moments that , if not seized , will forever seal the fate of the needlessly timid . the original , dreamy music by gaili schoen uses violin , flute , and piano to set the mood . in typical jaglom fashion this is interspersed with romantic music from the 1930s that sounds like it comes from a treasured old record . just the music alone will put you in the mood for love . constantly aware of the danger of a missed opportunity , sean reflects that , " it feels like one of those moments that , if you turn the wrong way , you may regret it forever . " jaglom manages to make their uneasiness palpable and genuine with subtle maneuvers of the camera and careful shifts in the editing . " i'm married , i have vows , i have to stick with it , " sean tells us , but even if you think you can guess the twists and turns , you may be surprised . their difficulties will play out in a manner perhaps more akin to reality that the pabulum that hollywood prefers to offer us . " are you happy ? " " i'm as happy as i ever expected to be , " he responds in a frank but less than satisfying confirmation of contentment . " i never thought i could feel love , the real love you read about and dream about , " dana tells sean . partly a schmaltzy love story and partly a wonderful romance , deja vu has more than enough good parts to make up for its unnecessary subplots and periodic lack of focus . deja vu runs 1 : 55 . it is rated pg-13 for a little profanity , brief sexuality and a scene of drug use and would be fine for teenagers . 
you've played the video game , now see the movie . by that measure , the opening to 1995's goldeneye does not disappoint . this stunt pushes any sane rules of credibility , but bond films don't exist in a world of euclidean geometry , having instead their own set of axioms . ( every time i review a bond movie , i get a slew of letters explaining how the actor playing bond is universally recognized as the best bond ever and another batch claiming the actor is widely accepted as the worst bond imaginable . many of bond's fans seem to be under the delusion that all agree . ) brosnan is tough , confident and sexy as bond . he does not try to mimic any of the previous bond actors , but establishes his own interpretation of the role . several notable members of one of the strongest and most intelligent supporting casts of any bond movie include judi dench from her majesty , mrs . its most powerful gadget is a pair of stinger missiles in the headlights . don't mess with this car , or you'll be toast as fast as bond can find the right button . and what vehicle is better to crush the opposition that a big tank with humongous treads ? it is rated pg-13 for a number of sequences of action violence and for some sexuality and would be fine for kids around 9 and up . my son jeffrey , age 9 , said it was almost his favorite bond movie but that he was sad that one of his favorite characters died in it . he thought brosnan was a really good 007 . 
" i suspect that the less you know about me , the longer you'll stay interested , " she tells sam after refusing to tell him what she does for a living - she says she doesn't think it's relevant to their relationship . most movies telegraph their punches from the beginning , but in this one it isn't clear for quite a while where it's heading or even what genre it belongs to . although made for just $60 , 000 , the high levels of the acting and the realistic location sets have the look of a much bigger budget film . this is indie film making at its best . it is a high quality production but willing to take the risk you expect outside of the hollywood system . frank de marco's cinematography is full of somber , nocturnal shadows , and its frantic pace captures well sam's anxiety . the director said that he was making a film about " the ambiguity of life . " certainly the love affair at the picture's center has almost more ambiguity that sam can bear . the two leads have genuine but unhealthy chemistry . the slow yet always mesmerizing film has few faults . only the ending , which turns a bit schlocky , disappoints . it is not rated but should be nc-17 for graphic sex , full-frontal nudity , violence , and drug usage and would be suitable for teenagers only if they are older and mature . 
if you don't break off a kiss by the count of 6 , then you committed a sin with the boy . the richly acted film is written and directed by thom fitzgerald in a quirky but loving style . although some may refer to the film as yet another dysfunctional family picture , that moniker misses the mark . this delightful little picture mixes love , tragedy and pathos , resulting in a hopeful and almost magical concoction . kerry fox from an angel at my table and shallow grave plays rosemary with a compelling joy . nicole burnell , who gave such a devastating performance in the sweet hereafter , plays the teenage rosemary . the director manages to stage simple scenes in wonderfully imaginative ways . as much as anything , the film is a series of character sketches . with absolute finesse the director crafts a subtle scene that manages to yield significant emotional punch without being sensational . all of this notwithstanding , he still prefers males . the film is at its most poignant in several sequences in which the grown william comes face-to-face with himself when younger . even here , the director touches your heart without ever letting the story dissolve into anything approaching a tearjerker . the ultimate result is an uplifting story that has more hope that one would ever expect from the outline of its plot . it is rated r for strong sexuality , language , violence and some teen drug use and would be acceptable for teenagers only if they are quite old and mature . 
duh , this is , like , important . " ) as the narrator , dedee manipulates the story by offering alternative versions and different perspectives on the story , which further enlivens an already exuberant picture . writer and director don roos's irreverent script can and should be compared favorably to warren beatty's bulworth . happy to offend any group without worrying about retribution , this very funny picture dishes out one guffaw after another with many of the best lines being so raunchy as to be unprintable . replies an angry lucia , who is quite protective of bill . that doesn't mean i'm jewish . " " this is how we do it on the planet maturia , " lucia lectures the clueless and immature matt in another scene . " we have much to teach you . " the press kit offers widely varying interpretations of the film's provocative title , but dedee offers the most intriguing explanation . it is rated r for profanity and sexuality and would be fine for older teenagers . 
in his first film the kids refer to themselves , derogatorily , as preppies , but by the last picture , the last days of disco , they have been rechristened yuppies , even if none of them will admit to being one . stillman films , with their acerbic humor , are perhaps best on the second and third viewing . with their rapid-fire approach and their subtle dialog , it is easy to miss many of the lines the first time around . subsequent looks are also helpful since one of the failings of stillman's casting and his costuming is that most of the actors look alike and , to a lesser extent , so do the actresses . it may be halfway through before the audience learns to tell them all apart . not so long ago . " they are all elitists , united in their agreement that they hate pretentious people and that they certainly aren't ones themselves . although they are cynical to varying degrees , none is more so than nick smith , played as the perfect rich snob by christopher eigeman , who has starred in all three of stillman's films . while others worry about the possibility of failure , he plans on it , and , with his lack of ambition , it seems likely . " it's a tiny bit arrogant of people to go around worrying about those less fortunate , " nick royally declares . he points out that , even though he's never read it , it is universally agreed to be a mediocre book . " you don't have to read a book to have an opinion , " he argues . he goes on to say that he doesn't read any novels but prefers to read literary criticism instead . " that way you get both the novelists' ideas as well as the critics' thinking , " he reasons . his characters may get on your nerves sometimes , but he remains hopelessly in love with them and all of their foibles . like all his movies , metropolitan has the stagy talkiness of a play , but a fascinating one . " people see the harm in what excessive candor can do , " audrey argues correctly , knowing that someone could get hurt and that that someone could be her . as in the last days of disco , in which the leads lament disco's demise , the characters in metropolitan figure that this may be the last season for debutante balls and the end of an era . " i find that dehumanizing . " it is rated pg-13 for some profanity and for adult themes , and it would be fine for teenagers . 
" the way i see it , you have people who own lawns and people who mow them , " trent says , explaining his role at the bottom of the social hierarchy . full of self-deprecating humor , trent faces his reduced opportunities in life with spunk but not much hope . as the quirky film starts , it looks like another plastic parody , but director john duigan has something else entirely in mind . the imaginative director of sirens stages scenes in ways shocking , surprising , and generally quite satisfying . with rampant sexuality , violent undertones , and fascinating characters , the film has something for everyone . the central character in this modern fable is a precocious , 10-year-old girl , devon stockard , played with wonderful complexity by newcomer mischa barton . she delivers a riveting performance that constantly surprises . with her wide-eyes and broad smile , she is devilishly delightful and ever inquisitive . although devon seems as though she might turn into a lolita , she never does . devon's wildness comes out in other vivid ways . kathleen quinlan , whose specialty is loyal , suffering housewives , plays an erotically charged one this time . the director's talents are best seen in those scenes in which he transforms weed pulling and salad preparation into incredibly erotic undertakings . lawn dogs , like sirens , basically defies description . suffice it to say that it has just about everything in it , including a director who knows precisely how to combine the ingredients in amazing and compelling ways . the performance by young mischa barton alone is worth the price of admission . it is not rated but would be an r for nudity , sexual situations and violence and would be fine for older teenagers . 
" the environmental movement of our times was sparked by the re-release of bambi in the 1950s , " is one of many deliciously offbeat slices of wisdom from writer and director wilt stillman's latest film , the last days of disco . full of wry , intelligent humor , stillman's pictures ( metropolitan and barcelona ) are perhaps an acquired taste , and his latest is arguably his best yet . we are told that the story is set in " the very early 1980s , " and , although it is being marketed as a nostalgic disco movie , the story really has little to do with discos or dancing . the movie is a talkfest that uses the disco scene and the period merely as a backdrop . forget those guys and their hang-ups . the film comes alive with its wonderfully complex , intellectual humor that is so dense and fast-paced that it might take several viewings to catch it all . one long scene has the group deconstructing the meaning of lady and the tramp , contemplating the various dogs' psychological motivations and envisioning possible epilogues . " to thine own self be true " can become bad advice if your " self " isn't all that great in the first place . besides , it could be worse since vd is easily treatable , unlike herpes . much of their logic has an escher quality , nicely twisting back on itself . des , who turns out to be the most interesting character of all , is full of reflections on life . " we're really designed for pairing off . " " i wanted you to know that i'm not one of them . i can be discouraged . " it is rated r for brief scenes of sex , nudity , and drug usage and would be fine for older teenagers . 
his latest motion picture , six days , seven nights , is a big-hearted movie filled with comedy and romance . with a marvelous script by michael browning , the story provides ample laughs as well as a few beautifully tender moments . the plane crashes on an uninhabited island , and most of the remaining movie is about how robin and quinn cope . " why aren't you one of those guys with skills ? " finally after one calamity after another , she allows as how , " i've had just about as much vacation as i can stand . " the movie is as good with the physical comedy as the verbal . in one delicious scene , robin freezes in the water when a snake crawls into her shorts . in the show's most precious and romantic scene , quinn talks about how much he enjoyed their brief kissing earlier and muses on how much he'd like to do it again . in an age in which actors quickly throw off their clothes and jump into bed , the intimacy of simple kissing is rarely bothered with and certainly never discussed . there is excellent , albeit subtle , chemistry between robin and quinn . ( as for heche's sexual orientation , let it be said that the motion picture industry is filled with heterosexuals playing homosexuals and vice versa . acting like something they're not is what actors are paid to do in every film they are in . ) the movie cuts between robin and quinn's hardships and the luxury that frank and angelica are enjoying back at the resort . with michael chapman's breathtaking cinematography - the picture was filmed on kauai - and randy edelman's dreamy music , the movie is easy to fall for . the film's most delightfully ridiculous aspect has to be robin's coiffure . it is rated pg-13 for adult themes , mild profanity and cartoonish violence and would be fine for kids around eleven and up . 
mulan , which we saw being developed in disney's florida studios , is the first disney animated movie produced on the east coast . the impressive result , although not as spectacular as some of disney's recent offerings , bodes well for this isolated , creative team . filmed in medium blues with warm rose accents , the animation is handsome albeit not up to standards of the lion king . best in the crowd sequences , the movie has a most awe-inspiring visual of an attacking horde of huns , with hundreds of bluish-gray men charging over a snow-covered landscape . although the film's images are sumptuous , its songs are all eminently forgettable . mulan fails miserably even with a cheat sheet of the right answers written on her arm . eddie murphy , who mumbles too many of his lines , plays the dragon , mushu . the energetic murphy tries to be robin williams , but murphy's lines aren't anywhere near aladdin quality . the recruits try to out macho each other with lines like , " i'm going to hit you so hard it will make your ancestors dizzy . " with shades of g . i . jane , mulan soon goes from being a walking disaster to being the star pupil . mulan doesn't reject her feminine side . " just because i look like a man doesn't mean i have to smell like one , " she says before skinny-dipping in the closest stream . the film's message is easily seen in the big hun battle . it is rated g and would be fine for all ages . my son jeffrey , age 9 , gave the film * * * . he thought the dragon was really funny and the film's ending especially good . his buddy , nickolas , age 9 , gave the picture * * ? . he liked the way mulan always thought of new ideas , but he thought parts of the story dragged . 
in contrast , the invincible commando elite , a dirty dozen version of g . i . joe-type action figures , have a commander , chip hazard , who would make general patton proud . in a movie filled with references to older films , the voices of many of the commandos are done by ernest borgnine , jim brown , and others from the dirty dozen . the resulting dark comedy , while likely to scare the daylights out of the more impressionable younger viewers , will delight most audiences as it pushes the limits of what is expected and acceptable from a live-action movie featuring toys that come to life . the soldiers , designed by jurassic park's stan winston , look like live toys rather than animatronic or computer-generated figures that mimic toys . irwin exclaims . from metal-pronged corncob holders to nail guns to aerosol flame-throwers , their arsenal is impressive and imaginative . in the darkest scene in the story , nude barbie-like dolls mix trite teen talk with fighting slogans - " if you can't accessorize , pulverize ! " small soldiers borrows scenes and soundtracks from other movies . one of the funniest sequences is an homage to real life . it is rated pg-13 for violence and profanity and would be fine for kids nine and up . my son jeffrey , age 9 , thought the movie was great and gave it * * * * . 
imagine the sexy jennifer lopez almost bursting out of her expensive suit and you nestled up right next to her . that's just the wonderful predicament that george clooney finds himself in the midst of in out of sight . of the many pictures made from his books , the most recent three are get shorty , touch , and jackie brown , this one is arguably the best . the first big budget picture by director steven soderbergh of sex , lies , and videotape fame demonstrates his dedication to character development over plot . as richly textured as a brueghel painting , the story meanders along giving the players adequate , sometimes more than adequate , time and space to develop their characters . scott frank's screenplay skips backwards and forwards in time with great glee , which makes paying attention important . the effect of this fairly random method of storytelling is to add layers and dimensions that a straightforward rendition would miss . their flirting at the cocktail lounge beforehand and their partial disrobing in the hotel bedroom is more erotic than many more explicit scenes found in other films . soderbergh realizes that it is the anticipation of the affair that is frequently as satisfying , if not more so , than the tryst itself . along the way we meet a string of curious characters . and this is only part of the talented cast . audience's enjoyment of the picture will depend in part on their ability to derive satisfaction from such a cornucopia of corny characters . thanks especially to the hot chemistry between the two leads , the picture will delight most viewers even while the lack of much narrative drive may frustrate them . it is rated r for violence , profanity , and sexual situations and would be fine for most teenagers . 
and it gets better . it is what happens or doesn't happen next that forms the basis of the plot . director j . j . bigas luna's the chambermaid on the titanic ( la femme de chambre du titanic ) , based on the novel by didier decoin , isn't some cheap exploitation picture trying to ride on the coattails of titanic's success . instead , it is a delightful and whimsical tale , full of the magic of the storytelling . beautifully and delicately constructed , the film captivates and surprises the audience . the superlative acting adds to the enjoyment , and unlike many french films , the three leads will probably be familiar to american viewers . it all starts when the strikingly handsome horty , played with quiet intensity and precision by olivier martinez from the horseman on the roof , wins a contest . and that is only the setup for the plot . the question is what is true , and what isn't ? they are not entirely sure if they care about his veracity since these ribald , adult fairy tales keep getting better and better . the touching movie takes many unpredictable twists before coming to a surprising and completely satisfying conclusion . like horty's stories , the movie is smart enough to serve up delicious little morsels of ambiguity for us to savor and ponder long after the house lights have gone up . it is in french with english subtitles . the film is not rated but would be an r for profanity and sex and would be fine for older teenagers . 
paul hogan as michael j . " crocodile " dundee is an apolitical braggart and a generally loveable character - just the sort you'd want to hang out with if you had a trip into the australian outback . although an extremely popular movie that garnered an academy award nomination for its script by hogan , john cornell , and ken shadie , the people associated with it were not able to build on their success in the movie . paul hogan had few other movie roles of merit and was last seen in the odious flipper remake . the writers and the director , peter faiman , similarly disappeared into oblivion . crocodile is totally at peace with nature , or as he puts it , " god and me , we'd be mates . " the incredulous new york native , who isn't used to strangers speaking , much less being friendly , is completely bewildered . rather than have the guy take offence , the big-hearted picture has him be surprised and curious rather than insulted . the innocence of this sweet little story is best seen when crocodile finds something looking like a foot washer in the bathroom in his fancy midtown hotel room . embarrassment - that's a concept not often seen in today's movies . it is rated pg-13 for a brief scene of ridiculed drug usage and for a little profanity and would be fine for kids around 7 and up . my son jeffrey , age 9 , liked the movie and gave it * * 1/2 . 
paul hogan as michael j . " crocodile " dundee is an apolitical braggart and a generally loveable character - just the sort you'd want to hang out with if you had a trip into the australian outback . although an extremely popular movie that garnered an academy award nomination for its script by hogan , john cornell , and ken shadie , the people associated with it were not able to build on their success in the movie . paul hogan had few other movie roles of merit and was last seen in the odious flipper remake . the writers and the director , peter faiman , similarly disappeared into oblivion . crocodile is totally at peace with nature , or as he puts it , " god and me , we'd be mates . " the incredulous new york native , who isn't used to strangers speaking , much less being friendly , is completely bewildered . rather than have the guy take offence , the big-hearted picture has him be surprised and curious rather than insulted . the innocence of this sweet little story is best seen when crocodile finds something looking like a foot washer in the bathroom in his fancy midtown hotel room . embarrassment - that's a concept not often seen in today's movies . it is rated pg-13 for a brief scene of ridiculed drug usage and for a little profanity and would be fine for kids around 7 and up . my son jeffrey , age 9 , liked the movie and gave it * * 1/2 . 
with his wide-brimmed felt hat , john is dashingly handsome and would like nothing better than to take elisabeth home to america as his bride . handled delicately but movingly , it is likely to reduce many to tears . although the film is pure formula , it is so well executed that the audience soon forgets that they've seen all of this before . the actors make the characters so genuine and touching that one doesn't mind the film's being so predictable . nicholson devotes careful attention to the smallest details . " all these huge rooms , and we live less than three feet from the fire , " john reflects , reminding us how cold those large estate homes must have been . the movie focuses on three questions . yes , these are all easily guessed , but the beauty of firelight is that it still radiates a special magic in its presentation . it is rated r for sex , nudity and brief profanity and would be fine for teenagers . 
set in a lush , fairytale , sixteenth century france , the movie floats on gossamer wings . danielle is a beautiful tomboy who fights with the best of them but who manages to stay absolutely charming in every scene . barrymore is perfectly cast for the role , and , given this script , it becomes hard to think of anyone who could have played it better . when she smiles , the camera lens almost melts . as danielle's stepmother , rodmilla , anjelica huston delivers a reserved but dead-on performance , helped by the bitingly witty script . in the film's most satisfying scene , danielle finally slugs marguerite when she can stomach her no more . a prince and a commoner are not a likely combination in the 1600s . but you knew the story . the delight of ever after is that it makes it all seem new and fresh . barrymore's performance alone is worth the price of admission . it is rated pg-13 for a single mild profanity , and the picture would be fine for all ages . my son jeffrey , age 9 , loved the picture , giving it * * * * . he thought barrymore was really cute . 
liam neeson , in a tender and understated performance , plays ethan . liam gives a carefully constructed characterization of a long-suffering man who has relegated his life's ambitions to his wife's needs . joan allen , who plays the weak and sickly better than almost anyone , is zeena , ethan's insufferable wife . allen's zeena is extremely easy to hate and despise . zeena is so irritating that even the most fervent anti-adulterer will empathize with ethan's need to abandon her and run to mattie for love and companionship . brown has just the right delicate hand not to overwhelm the subtleties of the story , based on the edith wharton novel . the snow becomes both the most beautiful and the most frightening aspect . freezing cold , it makes ethan's florida dream palpably desirable and yet far removed from any possible reality for him . even when you know it is coming , it still takes your breath away . it is rated pg for mature themes and would be fine for kids 10 and up although they would probably need to be teenagers to be interested . 
both the strength and the weakness of the film come from rubin's dedication to his vision . he consistently keeps his actors in careful check . faced with issues of enormous proportions that could mean not only imprisonment but also possible death , his characters stay low key and pensive . the casting , with the exception of a weak performance by david conrad as tony , is strong enough to sustain a drama played more in the characters' heads than in their words . subtle expressions on their faces tell much of the story . in either case , lewis will not be executed . as you can imagine , these attitudes will evolve , and motives and " facts " will be questioned . the conclusion , which can be partially guessed , contains the explosive drama absent from the rest of the picture . even if the film suffers from its languid pacing , its fascinating plot and excellent acting more than make up for its shortcomings . it is rated r for sex , nudity , profanity , drug usage , and violence , and would be fine for older teenagers . 
( many will write this off as a plot device , but since i have one close relative whose family got by with a similar ruse in the great depression , i could identify with their plight . ) the abramowitzs live in squat , ugly , stucco boxes with ironic names like the " casa bella " apartments . it would have been easier to have had murray be unemployed , but the smart script gives murray a job -- user car salesmen -- without the skills to make much money from it . his only daughter , vivian , is the film's central character . " what seems to be the problem ? " she's sure that they are so large that people will laugh at her so breast reduction surgery might be just the answer . vivian , in a delicate , funny , and slightly erotic scene , finds even better uses for the vibrator when rita isn't there . the comedy rarely subsides , and yet the picture is more touching than funny . director jenkins has a deft touch in blending in plenty of humor to keep us interested while she weaves a poignant tale of a struggling family who manage to always keep their heads up and their bags packed . it is rated r for sex , nudity , profanity and drug content , and would be fine for older teenagers . 
the merchant ivory film a soldier's daughter never cries is a richly textured series of sketches pasted into an inviting , cinematic picture book . based on kaylie jones's novel of an expatriate family living in paris in the 1960s and 1970s , the story starts slowly as it introduces its characters , but it eventually weaves a strong spell on the audience . he voices controversial opinions that sometimes make sense and other times don't . except for these relatively weak characters , the movie is fully fleshed out . both actresses deliver wonderfully complex and winning performances . the realistic portrayal of channe's life and loves has incidents and characters just quirky enough to mimic real life without being too outlandish . the script by james ivory and ruth prawer jhabvala has the good sense to avoid the obvious scenes . instead , the script leads us into a heart-warming christmas tree trimming scene . the most original and intriguing character in the movie is the teenage channe's best friend , francis fortescue . francis , played by real-life operatic singer anthony roth costanzo in his first acting role , isn't channe's boyfriend per se , even if he'd like to be . his passion is opera , and his high-pitched voice is phenomenal . teenagers should all have such a wonderful friend as francis . having made us feel like part of the family , we become deeply but subtly moved by this last third of the picture . since they are viewed as weird , they act the part . the story , which gets to you in ways that are hard to explain , reminds us of the fragility of life and of the need to take the time to be with our loved ones , while they're still with us . and it teaches us about the need for friendships , both romantic and platonic . the first part of the film is partially in french with english subtitles . it is rated r for a little profanity and for mature situations and would be fine for teenagers . 
who or what is a ronin , you ask ? in somber , slow moving white text on a black background , a didactic ronin feels compelled to explain the definition of its title before it lets the movie begin . ( you'll be glad to know the introduction is little more than a confusing diversion having scant bearing on the movie at hand . although there is some relevance , it is best ignored . ) john frankenheimer , who has directed films as intriguingly excellent as the manchurian candidate and as laughably awful as the island of dr . moreau , focuses all of his considerable talents for tension on ronin . the problem with the movie , however , stems directly from frankenheimer's skill as an action director . the car chases , which are masterfully staged , overwhelm a much better psychological thriller underneath . the story trying desperately to get out is an outstanding character study of intrigue and double-dealing . thanks to david mamet's rewrite of j . d . zeik's original script , the movie pulsates with mamet's intelligent brand of terse , enigmatic dialog . as the movie opens , we meet a group of bad guys who know as little about what is happening as we do . an actress who is best when she has to keep her emotions closely in check , mcelhone is perfectly cast for the role . her character's coldness makes her few displays of genuine feelings all the more dramatic , none better than a brief kissing scene . as sam , robert de niro is mr . caution . if there's any doubt about a situation , he stays frozen in his tracks like a deer caught in the glare of a car's headlights . but , when he does move , de niro shows that he can play a quite credible action hero . the remainder of the ensemble cast is as good as the principals . the movie is set in france and features great aerial location shots of paris and nice . in this movie of cross , double-cross , and triple-cross , stealing the case becomes a child's game of case , case , who's got the case . the movie is at its very best when the least is known . the sparse dialog uses the unspoken word even better the spoken to advance the storyline . even knowing the old adage that there's no honor among thieves , the movie keeps surprising us . this movie's business is as a mysterious thriller , not a mindless action picture . with about fifteen minutes of car chases edited out , the marvelous movie at its core could have gotten out . as delivered , it's many outstanding parts are obscured by endless , action sequences . it is rated r for violence and profanity and would be fine for teenagers . 
the studio , expecting a solid b movie did not know what to do with the print wells gave them . essentially a b movie with an avant-garde look , the film , which was re-edited by the studio , got mixed reviews when it was released . whether touch of evil is a masterpiece as many have called it or just an intriguing , confusing and avant-garde b movie is the question . probably the movie's fans will be pleased with the new version , but those less attached to the original film may find the redo an interesting movie albeit far from a great one . the major change to the picture occurs during the long opening sequence of a moving car with a bomb in the trunk , which is the one of most important scenes in the move . in the original release the studio obscured the images by overlaying them with the opening credits and changing the natural street sounds wells wanted to a heavy henry mancini score . wells's vision for the opening is superior , this much is certain . wells not only directed the film , he also completely rewrote paul monash's original script , and he chose himself to star in the movie opposite charlton heston , who had just finished his successful role in the ten commandments . his sweaty face chomps so hard at his cigar that he almost pulverizes it , and his rumpled clothes look like he's been wearing them for weeks . the audience can almost smell him coming . the script revels in ambiguities and oblique sexual references . trying constantly to be more than just your average b movie , it throws in bits of everything from westerns to shakespeare . filmed in black and white with heavy use of shadows to denote the omnipresence of evil , the movie has a look popular in 1950's saturday matinee double features . the difference is that touch of evil has a stellar cast and a deliciously oblique script . " what does it matter what you say about people ? " she was speaking of wells's character , but the quote would be even more appropriately spoken of wells himself . his brilliance shows in his greater works as well as his more modest ones . were the reviewers at the time of its initial release wrong ? or was this really an unrecognized masterpiece ? you can be your own judge . as for me , it wasn't even the best movie i saw this week . still , a wells movie is always something well worth savoring . it is not rated but probably would be pg-13 for adult themes and violence and would be fine for kids around 12 and up . 
to this list can now be added frog and wombat , a delightful picture about some sixth grade girls hot on the trail of a " mystery . " written and directed by laurie agard , the film stays firmly in the realm of the delightfully silly kids' movie until the end , which would probably earn it a pg or pg-13 rating for mild violence . ( the film isn't rated . ) although it is a good picture without the ending twist , it is stronger for it . wombat pooh-poohs frog's whole propensity toward assuming the worst . the two lead actresses , while still getting their acting legs , give sweet performances . the script is funny with the best jokes , about menstruation , being ones that girls of that age will certainly enjoy and identify with . the script surprisingly allows them to do some of the gross stuff usually reserved for the boys . the best of these female gross-out scenes has frog and francesca enjoying peanut butter from a large jar by dipping their big toes into the jar and then eating the peanut butter right off of their toes . indie films for kids are almost impossible to find . this rare one deserves seeking out . perhaps we will be lucky , and it will inspire more such worthwhile and enjoyable productions . it is not rated but would be pg or pg-13 for a scene of mild violence . the picture would be fine for kids around 7 and up . my son jeffrey , age 9 , thought the movie was great and gave it * * * 1/2 . he thought frog was terrific . 
hollywood addicts are different but no less pathetic than addicts elsewhere . ben stiller , still playing in theaters as the comedic lead in there's something about mary , demonstrates considerable versatility as jerry stahl , addict extraordinaire and television writing wunderkind . since the gorgeous elizabeth hurley plays sandra , many male viewers may wish they were so tempted . not content with mere alluding to his habit , the film is filled with explicit scenes of him shooting , smoking and popping drugs . most , but not all , producers manage to be conveniently oblivious to his difficulties . " hollywood is so self-obsessed that nobody notices what anyone else is doing , " jerry points out . the other actors tend to be ex-druggies themselves , so they are sympathetic to his plight . permanent midnight , while having a few dark comedic undertones , is as effectively realistic a statement against drug usage as you're likely to find . it also amply demonstrates the downside of fame in the fast lane . it is rated r for pervasive hard drug usage , profanity , sex and nudity and would be acceptable for teenagers only if they are older and mature . 
the merchant ivory film a soldier's daughter never cries is a richly textured series of sketches pasted into an inviting , cinematic picture book . based on kaylie jones's novel of an expatriate family living in paris in the 1960s and 1970s , the story starts slowly as it introduces its characters , but it eventually weaves a strong spell on the audience . he voices controversial opinions that sometimes make sense and other times don't . except for these relatively weak characters , the movie is fully fleshed out . both actresses deliver wonderfully complex and winning performances . the realistic portrayal of channe's life and loves has incidents and characters just quirky enough to mimic real life without being too outlandish . the script by james ivory and ruth prawer jhabvala has the good sense to avoid the obvious scenes . instead , the script leads us into a heart-warming christmas tree trimming scene . the most original and intriguing character in the movie is the teenage channe's best friend , francis fortescue . francis , played by real-life operatic singer anthony roth costanzo in his first acting role , isn't channe's boyfriend per se , even if he'd like to be . his passion is opera , and his high-pitched voice is phenomenal . teenagers should all have such a wonderful friend as francis . having made us feel like part of the family , we become deeply but subtly moved by this last third of the picture . since they are viewed as weird , they act the part . the story , which gets to you in ways that are hard to explain , reminds us of the fragility of life and of the need to take the time to be with our loved ones , while they're still with us . and it teaches us about the need for friendships , both romantic and platonic . the first part of the film is partially in french with english subtitles . it is rated r for a little profanity and for mature situations and would be fine for teenagers . 
the handsome and smiling son , christian , played in a highly nuanced and masterful performance by ulrich thomsen , has no intention of delivering the speech the guests expect . how shocked are the assembled listeners ? the celebration is a marvelously inventive piece of filmmaking by director thomas vinterberg , a signer of the " dogme 95 , " whose seal solemnly graces the opening like a huge good housekeeping seal of approval . among the list of proscribed techniques are the use of artificial sounds , sets , locations and lighting . most notably , all cameras must be handheld . and the director must remain uncredited . it gets even more ludicrous in that the press kit contains the director's " confession " to every time his broke his vows . shocking . shocking . as silly as all of this sounds , it works beautifully , and i am not making any of it up . this further enhances the mystery . every member of the family seems in constant danger of violent eruption although fewer outbursts occur than one might expect . the richly textured story twists and turns until it seems to have painted itself into a corner where only a cliched ending is possible . then , viola , pulling a rabbit out of the celluloid hat , it comes up with a completely fresh and satisfying resolution . the celebration runs 1 : 45 . the film is in danish with english subtitles . it is rated r for sex , nudity , profanity , mild violence and brief dope smoking and would be acceptable for older and mature teens . 
in a high nuanced performance , hunter gives a complex reading of the difficulties of divorce and of change in one's lifestyle . as the sweet but sad pat , danny devito plays against his usual boisterous , comedic type . pat touches our hearts , not our funny bones . he has a thousand schemes , but he doesn't understand the importance of follow-through . coop . the movie opens with its most sharply written scene . hunter's performance is never better than in this scene . even with her rage , she never looks less than gorgeous , which makes the situation so ironic . we will learn more in flashbacks as the movie unfolds . if the entire script had the depth of the opening , the movie could have been oscar caliber . written and , for the first-time , directed by well-known screenwriter richard lagravenese ( horse whisperer and the bridges of madison county ) , the script is based on 2 anton chekhov stories , " the kiss " and misery . " the working title for the film , the kiss , would have been much better than living out loud , but it was retitled in order to avoid confusion with a recent , controversial book with the same title . handsomely photographed by john bailey and with a dreamy jazz score by george fenton , the good-spirited film goes down smoothly even in its sadder moments . the director has a respect for subtlety that most directors lack . even in moments ripe for exploitation , as when pat's only daughter dies , the movie treats the subject delicately . judith has a host of worries ranging from the serious to the frivolous that overwhelm people in times of crisis . less well developed , but more touching , is devito's character . the complex chemistry between them evolves slowly and in ways not usually found in typical straight-line movie romances , in which the characters go directly from meeting to bed with the only variable being the length of time in between . but when the movie is in gear , it really hums . the romantic film weaves a magic spell on the audience , not in the emotionally charged moments but in the subtext with the beauty of the film written on hunter's expressive brow . living out loud runs 1 : 42 . it is rate r for profanity , some drug content and sexuality and would be fine for older teenagers . 
john carpenter , the master of horror flicks , including the original halloween , is back with an impressive and surprisingly good picture , which modestly goes by the full title of john carpenter's vampires . vampires , a film smart enough to never take itself seriously , is a fun romp of a motion picture . redefining and enlivening the vampire genre , carpenter blends in lavish doses of humor along with an intriguing story . if you're used to vampire pictures that work only at the shock level , you will likely find that vampires does everything but scare you . while you're not likely to be frightened , you will find yourself laughing and being wrapped up in the engrossing story . don jakoby's script , based on the novel " vampire$ " by john steakley , has a fascinating mix of mystery and humor . regardless of what you heard , we learn that vampires are not impressed with garlic or crosses . the winch will experience mechanical difficulties more than once , causing panic and humorous expletives . woods has a ball in a role that feeds him a stream of great one-liners and generally lets him ham it up . although bodies are indeed ripped apart in the gory fashion of traditional horror movies , carpenter pulls the camera away before we are too grossed out . it is more that she has a perverse form of non-consensual sex with valek . lee takes a part that could have been a cliche and makes her character instead sympathetic and smart . the film has a handsome look and great electronic guitar music . thankfully absent is the overabundance of special effects that most directors fall back on today . even if the demographics for vampire movies are normally limited , this one has the potential to please a wide variety of filmgoers since carpenter does such a masterful job of invigorating a moribund genre . although not quite as good as the vampire movie habit , just released this week on video , vampires is a wonderfully entertaining movie that will pleasantly surprise those who see it . it is rated r for horror film gore , profanity , sex and nudity and would be fine for older teenagers . 
it's a nasty world out there . there's a burglary committed every 10 seconds in america , and 60% of all rapes are committed by burglars . if grigoris isn't caught , then the whole neighborhood is likely to be so impressed with the efficacy of the system that scared away an intruder that they'll want one too . in the best may-december romance in a long time , they engage in fun , energetic , but not very explicit sexual relations . the character-driven comedy is memorable not for the plot or the dialog but for the way the director creates such a fascinating little world . the characters are all sympathetically drawn , and , until the slightly darker second half , it stays completely good-spirited . the acting is all dead-on , and the script takes the time to develop all of the characters . as successful as most of the movie is , it doesn't know how to end . first-time director evan dunsky puts a partial finish on it , but the conclusion needs more work . still , the rest of the picture is delightful , and evan dunsky establishes himself as someone to keep an eye on for his next project . it is rated r for sexuality and profanity and would be fine for most teenagers . 
" we can take it . " maybe not . the siege , a riveting tale of terror , is by director edward zwick , who worked with denzel washington previously on the mesmerizing courage under fire and glory . beautifully edited for maximum tension by steven rosenblum , the movie keeps you on the edge of your seat . zwick knows how to time and stage scenes to keep the audience on constant alert . even when they know something will happen , as in the bus bombing , zwick manages to time it in a quite surprising way . the negative chemistry between the two of them and later between them and a self-righteous general william devereaux ( bruce willis ) form one of the most interesting of the story's subplots . " what is difficult is finding the wrong that's more right . " denzel washington delivers another of the richly intelligent performances that he can do so well . but it is annette bening , who steals the picture with her best dramatic performance ever . bening's precise and delicately emotive portrayal of a woman who reveals as little as possible about herself makes for a fascinating enigma . the story's respect for frank and his family somewhat counterbalances the story's controversial subject matter , the treatment of the arab-american population . it is in this section that the movie is most in danger of losing its audience . the film touches on issues of discrimination that will likely prove uncomfortable for many viewers . discrimination is like that , it is something easier to ignore than ponder . the movie makes judicious use of comedy to break the tension as in frank's microwave envy . it seems that spooks have some really nifty microwave equipment that allows them to eavesdrop on conversations and more , but the fbi has never been able to get its hands on the technology . the film's running joke has frank constantly coveting it . the movie is even able to get a laugh out of hub's humor-challenged management style . any movie about terrorist bombings that contains relatively few explosions , as the siege does , deserves a special award for its lack of pyrotechnic overkill . most directors of action films , even dramatic thrillers , seem to have their pay based on an incentive scheme directly linked to the noise level and number of explosions . zwick creates his tension the old-fashion way -- with actors actually acting . this can best be seen in the film's carefully choreographed conclusion . it is masterful more for what it doesn't contain than what it does . it is rated r for violence , language , and brief nudity and would be fine for most teenagers . 
the selection of kilmer proved to be a wise one , but the biggest risk dreamworks took wasn't in the casting department . the radical departure was that they decided to use the medium of animation to make a biblical epic , a la cecil b . demille , to move our hearts and minds rather than to tickle our funny bones . in the press kit producer penney cox says that they wanted to make a film for adults based on sophisticated themes but one that did not exclude children . animated movies for adults that are appropriate for kids and that are not comedies , now that is something fresh . let me admit up-front that i was quite skeptical as to whether dreamworks could pull it off . dreamworks's antz seemed to be a movie not quite appropriate for any age group . the prince of egypt may be harder to market than antz , but it is much more satisfying . like antz and unlike the more modest casting of pixar's a bug's life , the prince of egpyt has half of hollywood doing the voices . you can figure out for yourself who does the voice of god . the movie , which is weakest in the story department , is a cliff's notes version of demille's the ten commandments . the script by kelly asbury and lorna cook has an obsession with touching briefly on every classic event in moses's life . at less than half of that , the prince of egypt rushes through so much material that it doesn't establish sufficient depth for us to bond with the characters . this leads to the classic scene of the parting of the red sea , which is one of many places where computers were used to enhance the traditionally hand-drawn animation of the most of the production . it is the absolutely stunning visuals that make the movie so compelling . drawn with a rich palette of luxurious roses , blues and golds , the picture looks sumptuous from its first frame to its last . the construction of the temple is shown in blowing dust , and other scenes are shot with the glow of a rising sun . the most original visual sequence in the film occurs during a dream moses has . done with an explicit two-dimensional look , the colorful images painted on the temple walls come to life to tell their own animated story . even though it has its weaknesses , the prince of egypt is a noble attempt to carve out a new genre -- serious animated movies for adults that are acceptable for the entire family . this awe-inspiring movie deserves to be seen . it is rated pg for thematic elements and would be fine for the whole family . how old a kid would need to be to be interested depends on the child , but those over 8 will probably like it . 
anne and pierre , who live together with their adorable toddler , experienced theirs at the cinema . in la separation , a film whose meanings are revealed mainly in subtle nuances of the characters' body language , anne's outright admission of her displeasure forms one of the story's more explicitly dramatic moments . eventually , anne will nonchalantly tell pierre that she has fallen in love with someone else -- someone " who pays attention to me . " isabelle huppert , winner of the french best actress award in 1996 for la ceremonie , plays anne , the film's enigma . an attractive professional with deep brown eyes , anne possesses a breezy confidence . she does what she wants in life and isn't the least bit concerned how it might affect those around her . whether she's happy or sad , she keeps her emotions firmly in check . daniel auteuil , winner of the french best actor award in 1996 for the eighth day , plays pierre . still , as long as she does not leave , pierre's willing to go along with this . on the surface they look like a completely contented couple . the story by dan franck and the director , christian vincent , is as remarkable for the scenes that don't occur as those that do . the big angry outbursts are almost totally absent , and anne's other lover is only discussed but never shown . in the typically french style , the characters talk incessantly . cinematographer denis lenoir keeps the camera rigid during these talkfests , letting the two characters' heads and shoulders fill the frame . the movie is a character study , and the director clearly wants us to focus on the two leads . la separation is a subtle movie in which facial expressions are where the action is . the film is in french with english subtitles . it is not rated but would be pg-13 for a little profanity and mature themes and would be fine for teenagers . 
well , it's a 105 pound " dead body " problem and moving it from one point to another proves anything but simple in writer and director peter berg's very bad things . the title of the movie should serve both as a warning and a come-on . for those of you who loved there's something about mary and -- this is an important " and " -- are not squeamish when it comes to gore in the service of comedy , very bad things will likely prove to be an extremely enjoyable black comedy . on the other hand , if you're the type that closes your eyes during the bloody parts of films , pass on this one since you are going to miss seeing large sections of it . the movie's satire is so dark that the word black comedy doesn't quite capture the essence of its take-no-prisoners approach . it would be more helpful if we had a grading scale like numismatists do for uncirculated coins . on a darkness scale , this movie would be a few notches shy of a black hole . she is an anal retentive character , played with bitchy charm by cameron diaz from there's something about mary . when they realize the stripper is dead , the normally nice guys do what most decent folks would , they start to call 911 . the best part of the film occurs in the pained look on all the guy's faces , with the exception of robert , who is the film's truest deviant . jeanne tripplehorn plays the closest thing to a normal person that the film has . although not for the faint of heart , the movie will have you squirming in your seats and likely , laughing loudly . our audience got so rambunctious that they begin to shush each other so they wouldn't miss any of the funny lines . the film , which never pulls its punches , has a hilarious ending that's so non-pc and generally indecent that it is likely to evoke the strongest reaction of all from the audience . if you hated the film , you're likely to loathe this part most of all . those who like the picture's over-the-top approach will probably think the ending is a perfect cap to a completely irreverent comedy . very bad things runs 1 : 51 . it is rated r for strong , grisly violence , sex , nudity , profanity and drug use and would be acceptable for teenagers only if they are older and mature . 
producer jerry bruckheimer , the king of the action movies from beverly hills cop to armageddon , trots out his latest movie , enemy of the state , and it's a dandy . fast-paced and full of rapid cuts among high tech gadgetry , the movie , directed by tony scott ( top gun and crimson tide ) , throws believability out the window and happily lets the audience just kick back and have some fun . jon voight , a bimodal actor who either goes for creepy caricature or sincere intelligence , plays nsa section head thomas brian reynolds with impressive credibility and enough brainpower to hold his own among the nsa nerds . and it gives an opening for one of the funny script's best interchanges . the real star in the movie isn't smith , voight , or gene hackman , who shows up at the midway point , but it's the technology . the movie spends most of its time and bucks on demonstrations of advanced technical hardware . and it also provides somber lessons in ways to avoid being trapped in our government's crosshairs . spy satellites , aimed at us , are so powerful that they can observe the stains on our clothes . we learn that you should never look up , otherwise they will get a make on you . and most of all , never use a phone , even a pay phone . when a rogue agency goes after you , your reputation is history faster than you can cry foul . the movie , which becomes highly repetitious , gets a second wind at the end . the film's creative last half-hour , when dean and brill turn tables on nsa , is easily the best part . it's the sort of ending that's liable to set audiences cheering . it did ours . as intriguing as enemy of the state is , it is just as forgettable . entertainment without pretensions of being anything more , a typically satisfying jerry bruckheimer movie . it is rated r for violence and profanity and would be fine for teenagers . 
" it's gonna work . it's perfect . " scott b . smith's script for a simple plan , based on his best selling novel , is a carefully crafted character study with challenging moral dilemmas . hank , played by bill paxton from twister , is the group's brain and conscience . the press notes appropriately invoke the name of hitchcock . hitchcock would have naturally been drawn to this tale of average people caught up in a web from which they seem incapable of extricating themselves . they saw the story as having the stark simplicity of a poem , and they wanted the viewer's attention focused on the characters . the director , never missing a beat , keeps the audience guessing the story's resolution until almost the last minute . it is rated r for violence and profanity and would be fine for teenagers . 
the sports movie formula is etched somewhere in hollywood stone . heavy music and showy camerawork highlight every twist and turn , as if the future of the nation rides with the team . sports movies are considered innovative in the small degrees to which they vary from this rigid prescription . director robert towne's without limits , a movie which basically throws out the recipe , is the second and only movie about american long-distance running star steve " pre " prefontaine worth watching . containing an intense performance by billy crudup as pre and an oscar-worthy one by donald sutherland as bill bowerman , pre's coach at the university of oregon , without limits is one of the best sports movies in quite a while and is worth seeing , whether you are a sports fan or not . ( director steve james's trite prefontaine , from early last year , was not very good when evaluated on its own merits , and it suffers dramatically when compared to without limits . ) bill bowerman was the type who didn't talk a lot , but , when he did , it was worth hearing . this technique of leaving them in the dust from the first is a crowd pleaser , but bill argues that it's a loser when you're up against the best . he can endure more pain than anyone else can . running for him isn't about winning , but about doing your best even if that is precisely what prevents you from winning . you may have heard of them . " i believe in myself , " he retorts with such innocence that it shows he doesn't comprehend how blasphemous his answer might appear to her . to the extent that the movie has a big game , it is the 1972 munich olympics . even at almost a full two hours in length , the movie feels as trim as its star . conrad l . hall's cinematography , which focuses on the facial expressions during the races rather than the theatrics , helps us get inside the heads of the runners . feeling more like participants than spectators , the audience gets some real appreciation for pre's devotion to his goals . if there ever was one who marched to a different drummer , it was pre . it is rated pg-13 for brief sexuality and a little profanity and would be fine for kids around 11 and up . 
as economically directed by erik skjoldbaerg , insomnia , the lean and atmospheric tale written by nikolaj frobenius , is not compelled to explain everything . although it's not hard to follow , the story happily leaves the actions and motivations of many of the characters ambiguous . a film without much dialog like insomnia requires a strong leading actor to carry it . stellan skarsgard from breaking the waves , good will hunting and ronin delivers a masterful performance as jonas engstrom , the swedish cop with a reputation for doing whatever it takes to crack a case . skarsgard's acting temperament makes him a perfect choice for the role of the stoic policeman . racked with guilt for his mistakes and fearing the worst , jonas pushes his body past its level of endurance , causing himself , more than once , to almost fall asleep at the wheel . erling thurmann-andersen's penetrating cinematography shows every pore and line in jonas's troubled face . the director pays careful attention to the small details . the background sounds , for example , are so low that even a kiss sounds like a small explosion . this lack of ambient noise allows him to emphasize the minutia of the case that might otherwise have been missed . to say that a movie makes you sleepy is generally the ultimate insult , but not this time . skarsgard delivers such an emphatic performance that audiences may begin to feel just as fatigued as jonas . insomnia runs just 1 : 37 . the film is in norwegian with english subtitles . it is not rated but would be an r for brief intense gore , sex , nudity and profanity and would be fine for teenagers . 
it's almost the turn of the century -- no , not this century . but h ? lderlin has a problem . in a movie gorgeously filmed by egon werdin , the occasion of their first encounter is pure magic . throughout the rest of the movie , the male lead's beauty outshines the female's , but not in this scene , in which she looks like something sent from heaven . writer susanne schneider does a masterful job of naturally weaving in passages of h ? lderlin's poetry without it ever sounding stilted or forced . as directed by nina grosse , the lavish costume drama makes careful choices about what to explain and what to just let happen . the precise results are unpredictable but almost certainly undesirable -- at least for the husband . at almost two and one quarter hours , the movie sags when a little judicious pruning would have kept the focus . and after a logical conclusion right after susette's death , the movie continues on with a anticlimactic and overlong epilogue that would have been better handled in a written explanation in the closing credits . these faults are minor , however , and detract little from the success of this picture of tragic romance . it is not rated but would probably be an r for very brief sex , nudity and violence . it would be fine for teenagers . 
( he has already lectured the audience in voice-over about the " calculus " of human worth . jan wants to waste as little of his valuable time as possible on this case . ( writer and director steven zaillian's adaptation of jonathan harr's book can be infuriating if you think too hard about some of the scientific conclusions being drawn . as recent articles in the " wall street journal " and " forbes " have pointed out , the case is far from the simplistic one described . clusters will occur in any set of random numbers , and whether these two companies had anything to do with it was never proven . at any rate , the entertaining movie has significant problems even if you accept the book and screenplay as the full and complete truth . ) the problems start with john travolta's flat performance as jan . travolta never warms up to the role , coming across as emotionally uninvolved . whereas he threw himself into his recent part in primary colors , playing another character with a flexible set of morals , this time he approaches the role with clinical detachment . generating neither sympathy nor scorn , he gives a passionless performance than leaves the movie with a hollow core . fascinating incidents frequently dissolve into tedium as the energy gets drained away . notwithstanding all of these troubles , the supporting cast is terrific , and , as a writer , zaillian comes up with some great , subtle humor that provides one laugh after another as the lawyers put down each other and themselves . ( the script is much less successful in conjuring up the pain and suffering of the children . absent a few scenes , their misery is discussed with all of the compassion of a medical textbook . ) the movie is worth seeing for robert duvall's performance alone , which deserves to be remembered at oscar time . the character of jerome is so rich that a television series could easily be built around it . when jerome is on the screen , all of the movie's failings are quickly forgotten . macy's sympathetic portrayal of james will have you laughing so hard that you almost cry as james tries everything from lottery tickets to a plethora of credit cards to come up with the cash necessary to keep the case afloat . the battle , in which there were few winners , is all too neatly wrapped up in a hollywood style ending . don't read them too carefully , however , or you will realize how little was really decided . it is rated pg-13 for mature themes and several uses of the f-word and would be fine for kids around 12 and up . 
she's all that is an intelligent teen comedy -- bet you thought that was an oxymoron . a retelling of the pygmalion story , the movie takes a low-key approach to its comedy . although you're more likely to smile than laugh out loud at the film's brand of humor , you'll appreciate its ability to appeal to teens without relying on crude sexual innuendoes , bawdy jokes or coarse profanity . even if lee fleming's script has more than its share of cliches , it develops them in fresh and good-spirited ways that's likely to please the target teen audience as well as their parents . in contrast to zack's sweetness , taylor has the charm of a pit bull . no one could convert such a social loser into a queen of anything . rachael leigh cook , who , along with freddie prinze jr . , had a small part in the hilarious , dark comedy the house of yes , gives she's all that its special quality . she brings a soft-spoken humanity to her role that makes laney into a wonderfully likeable and charming character . ( as you can guess , once she has the right makeup , hairdo and clothes , laney easily outshines taylor . ) every guy should have a take-charge sister like mackenzie . director robert iscove's understated staging gives the film a remarkable grace and subtlety . with his serious approach to comedy , his actors never seem in danger of laughing at their own jokes . adults , in the few times they appear in the story , are sources of amusement , not derision . " i feel just like julie roberts in pretty woman , " a blissful laney declares in the end . " except for that whole hooker thing . " she ends up contented , and so will the viewers . it is rated pg-13 for a little profanity and some sexual situations and would be fine for kids around 12 and up . 
he proposes to call his first picture 20 dates because that is precisely how many women he promises to date in the movie . the movie is actually a mock documentary , but it was realistic enough to fool some of the critics at our press screening . the movie written and directed by and starring myles berkowitz , does not have the sharp writing of the wonderfully inventive waiting for guffman , another mock documentary . nevertheless , 20 dates is pure , unadulterated fun , and a perfect date movie . well , probably not a " first " date movie . as seems somehow appropriate , 20 dates uses movie romance as its benchmark for true love . even if myles ultimately concludes that " love , real love , is like a really great movie , " along the way he uses delightful clips from classic movies to poke fun at celluloid romance . he argues that real life isn't like the movies , which usually end with the man and the woman running toward each other for the big kiss , while the music comes up . like some expos ? on " 60 minutes , " we hear the backer scream obscenities about how he wants the movie done , which myles rejects for artistic reasons . while the backer speaks , we see the outside of some sleazy building as his words are shown below it in subtitles . myles likes to add cartoonish graphics for humor . as myles plods through his dates , we see graphics like checkmarks and question marks superimposed on the screen , representing his thinking on how each date is progressing . the best use of graphics occurs when he pokes fun at the waste of money in most motion pictures . although handsome and well dressed , except for his proclivity to mix red and green , myles manages to turn most dates off in subtle ways . these are the key questions in this breezy movie that goes down as easy as the ubiquitous wine that myles uses with little success to loosen up his prey . it is rated r for profanity and mature themes and would be fine for teenagers . 
not many people played their music anymore , so this had to be an omen . made by filmmakers with just the right credentials , director brian gibson ( what's love got to do with it ) and writers dick clement and ian la frenais ( the commitments ) , still crazy is a small , unpretentious movie with a big-hearted story . and in this inviting movie , so will you . just kick back and let the good times roll as the 70's music and the band's good humor pumps up your day . each member of the cast has a sweet little story to tell . with just this cast , the movie would have been enjoyable , but bill nighy , as the band's troubled singer , ray simms , adds extra panache that gives the movie its special ingredient . " you know how old i am ? " the movie argues convincingly that we do not have to accept this conventional wisdom . the upbeat film doesn't really care if we ponder these little messages ; it is happy just to entertain us by letting us hang out with the band and vicariously enjoy their gigs . it is rated r for modest amounts of profanity , sexuality and drug usage and would be fine for most teenagers . 
like the energizer bunny , mel gibson , as usual , gets beaten to a pulp , but , with blood flowing everywhere , he just keeps on going and going in payback , a smart new thriller by director brian helgeland , the screenwriter for l . a . confidential . porter will surprise you with unexpected actions and reactions , but this time mel never overacts or tries to be too cute as he frequently does in his lethal weapon series . with this restraint comes the most empathetic acting he has done since ransom . " good guys are nice , " porter tells us in a raspy voice-over . " you always have to have someone to take advantage of . cinematographer ericson core provides the film's stunning look . core , whose work was one of the few good parts of the film 187 from two years ago , gives the images a grimy , seedy look . the colors have been washed out so that only the blues remain . the browns and flesh tones appear to have been added back in , and shadows bathe every scene . chris boardman's moody , mysterious music adds to the movie's heavy atmospherics . the secret of the movie is the depth of the supporting cast , and the way the intelligent script is able to make each stand out . but don't cross them , or they will shoot you -- or worse . like a roller coaster , in which the riders delight in screaming down every precipitous fall , payback loves to make the audience grimace . porter will get or give a dose of instant pain as the audience collectively cries out and then falls silent waiting in silent , subconscious anticipation for the next big drop -- exhausting but fun . it is rated r for strong violence , profanity , drug use and sexuality and would be fine for older teenagers . 
have you ever been so head over heels in love that you felt like you were floating ? in an age of ironic movie titles , it is refreshing to have one that is completely true . although gellar comes most recently from a teen movie background , simply irresistible is unabashedly adult , even its very mild pg-13 rating means that it would be fine for kids younger than teenagers . it's also a feel-good movie that isn't ashamed of emphasizing the upbeat and optimistic part of our souls . there isn't a dysfunctional family in sight , and the characters are the sort of nice people that you'd like to get to know better . the waitresses lug big pitchers of iced tea , and the plates don't match . " it's the whole point of the meal . " ) being on different ends of the economic scale , tom and amanda don't do much about their infatuation at first . the movie's most enchanting scene occurs in their next meeting after that first meal . the movie has a strong supporting cast that enriches the story . similar to like water for chocolate in its love of food and its association of eating with loving , simply irresistible is not a movie you should attempt to watch on an empty stomach lest you get such a ravishing hunger for great food that you are forced to leave the theater . and whatever you do , don't you dare let your spouse see it alone . the story puts such a romantic trance on the audience that your other half is liable to fall in love with the stranger in the next seat . simply irresistible runs a breezy 1 : 35 . it is rated pg-13 for brief sexual references and would be fine for any kid old enough to be interested in romance . 
as directed by pretty woman's garry marshall and written by him and bob brunner , the other sister is two movies for the price of one , but only one is worth paying for . watching carla and daniel's beautiful but naturally awkward love affair and experiencing their coping with the world provides a wonderful movie-going experience that is alternately sweet , poignant , romantic and humorous . it does all this without ever falling into crass manipulation . unabashedly uplifting , the movie never stoops to exploiting the vulnerability of the leads' conditions . carla and daniel are as natural and believable as the supporting characters are plastic and clich ? d . nevertheless , they hit it off marvelously , and the quirky , romantic chemistry between them is a joy to behold . approaching it like a subject in school , they get " the new joy of sex " book and discuss which page numbers they like and which they don't . this is done so seriously and sweetly that it will have you doubling over with laughter . " i think it was madonna , " he replies seriously . ) the movie works best in its many innocent moments . the movie builds toward an emotional crescendo that will fill you with tears , many of joy . even if the last act is full of predictable scenes , they are so exuberant that they are delightful . every time the movie approaches the mawkish line , it manages to avoid stepping over it , mainly through the strength of the astonishing acting by lewis and ribisi . " i love you more than band music and more than cookie making , " daniel tells carla . that a movie could make a line like that sound genuine is all the testimony it needs . it is rated pg-13 for thematic elements involving sexuality and would be fine for kids around 12 and up . 
it was during the movie's hilarious and frenzied big dance number that i came to the full realization that i had grown to love blast from the past , a movie that starts off as slow as molasses . the movie is a delightful romantic comedy starring brendan fraser , a gifted actor from movies as widely varied as george of the jungle and gods and monsters , and alicia silverstone , a talented actress whose only notable success was in clueless . as directed by the first wives club's hugh wilson and written by bill kelly , blast from the past manages to use low-key , subtle humor to come up with big laughs , no small feat . looking like a wild-eyed idiot , christopher walken , as calvin , takes the only broadly comedic approach of the leads and is the least successful because of it . calvin's jubilant mood turns somber , however , when kennedy informs the nation that the russian missiles are pointed at us and " are capable of striking most cities in the western hemisphere . " " i've been thinking about that a little , just the last 15 years , " he smiles in reply . typical of the delicious subtly of the script is his reaction to the fancy touch-tone , room phone . both actors give sweet and compelling performances , but fraser dominates the movie with his striking comedic grace . he provides the glue that makes many of the scenes between the leads work . it is the reaction shots of those around them that will have you doubling over in laughter . the mark of a good comedy is whether you like to see it again . a couple more times would be just fine with me . it is rated pg-13 for brief profanity and sexuality and would be appropriate for kids around 11 and up . 
" i'm ovulating ! besides being tyrannical , " middle-aged " hallie is quite cynical , since she says she " is about 35 " -- 32 to be exact . you can immediately tell the other couple is bad since zack smokes like a chimney and they don't recycle . all four of the actors in the purposely-claustrophobic tale are well cast . the two female characters are nicely contrasted . what happens next is obvious even if the reactions aren't . " i can't believe you can do this to me , robert , " she yells quite naturally , but then throws in a zinger , which reveals her true feelings . " i'll be ovulating in a few days now . " hallie always knows what is most important to her , and it isn't robert . >from this long setup , the body of the movie takes several twists , some surprising and some predictable , but all quite satisfying . the sophistication of the production belies its modest budget . shot in a house in an 18-day shoot , it still backs the wallop of a movie with much bigger stars and budget . most reviews end with the critic telling you what the movie is about . this time let me quote from the writer and director who summarizes it well . " the movie is about personal responsibility , " reiss said . robert lets himself be drawn into a hellish web , and it is his responsibility and no one else's . ( reiss also explained the film's goofy title , which makes little sense and still doesn't after you've heard his rationale . it is not rated but would be an r for sex , profanity , and violence and would be fine for older teenagers . 
the only hint he uncovers is both obscure and ironic , but it doesn't help resolve the location of the children . the parents are an amalgamation of a wide variety of types , and , within the constraints of a normal length film , the writer manages to develop each remarkably well . murer , who was at our screening , clearly understands and appreciates children . his presentation of them is never patronizing or demeaning . he even did an impromptu magic trick that he used to entertain the child actors on the set . his treatment of the parents in the story is a bit more judgmental , but completely honest . the beauty of the film is that , as the conclusion draws nigh , the audience realizes that it has learned remarkably little . the busy , cathartic ending may be a bit much for some , but it nicely caps a most unusual tale . after the film concluded , the director poked fun at his own movie . " you can tell it isn't an american film -- no big stars , no happy ending , " he said . i told him that i respectfully disagreed about the ending . he smiled broadly and didn't argue with me . full moon runs 2 : 04 . it is not rated , but would be pg-13 for a little profanity and would be fine for kids around 10 and up . 
you may have trouble believing a few of the characters' reactions , but , if you haven't yet come to appreciate jennifer beals's acting talents , you will after watching this movie . beals said she likes scripts like this one that make her " want to take care of the character , " which she does here with grace and power , stealing the movie from a good cast . using both his comedic and his dramatic skills , fraser gives an unflinchingly strong performance . " he would have come , but he wasn't invited . " lest we think the attitude problem lies in any way with david , his mother certainly lets us know how deep her homophobia goes . many viewers will find that the actions of the characters sometimes stretch credulity , but the script , with one exception , never goes too far afield . you may loathe the way that david and his friends are treated , but the movie doesn't make the parents into easy-to-write-off devils . they are in many ways wonderful parents , unlike rob's parents who are uniformly oppressive . the story's first act uses some hilarious but biting comedy to relax and entertain the audience . " they're never sure . they just tell you enough to destroy you . " as suzanne and rob are just starting to grapple with the issue of whether to keep or abort the gay fetus , david is busy with his opera production . he's presenting a small-scale -- 6 hour rather than the normal 23 hour --version of wagner's ring cycle . just when you've pushed back in your chair and relaxed a bit , the more intense second act begins and the comedy turns to drama . second-time director ross kagan marks is more adept at the comedic portions of the story that the drama . the first act flows rapidly and smoothly and scores just as many points about the tragedy of the situation as the dramatic second act . any flaws in the direction , however , are ameliorated by the quietly dominating performance of jennifer beals . even in the second act , the comedy provides much of the dramatic punch . david asks , for example , " what if orson welles's mom didn't want a fat one ? " most of the problems with the story come back to basic plausibility . assuming that there is a 90% accurate test that can predict homosexuality is a stretch . and then late in the story there is a tragedy that is so clearly nothing more than a cheap plot device that it again reminds us of the weaknesses of the storyline . yet even with its limitations , the movie knows how to touch your heart and tickle your funny bone . it is rated pg-13 for mature themes and a little profanity and would be fine for kids around 12 and up . 
somewhere along the way in three seasons , writer and director tony bui's cinematic poem , viewers finally realize that the movie isn't about anything per se . without the heavy pretensions and somnolent length of this year's oscar nominee the thin red line , it shares its lyric beauty and its gorgeous cinematography . the thin red line is ostensibly about war , although the flora and fauna seem to get the most screen time , but three seasons has much simpler ambitions . it wants to embrace the audience with a motion picture tone poem about current day vietnam . watching it is like lying on a white sand beach as gentle waves lap at your side . his first film , three seasons , which was an astonishing triple award winner ( grand jury , audience and cinematography ) at this year's sundance film festival , is more a movie for the heart than the mind . full of breathtaking imagery and melodious folk tunes , it casts a magical spell on its audience through the simple milieu of the people's daily routines . in the midst of the lush visuals , three small stories grace the screen . one concerns the relationship between a relatively expensive prostitute ( zoe bui ) and a driver of a cyclo ( a bicycle with a seat ) , played by don duong in the film's most memorable performance . another one , with a contented smile , says that he wouldn't want to stay at a 4 or even a 5 star hotel , since he sleeps in a 1 , 000 star place every night -- without a roof , he has the glorious , starry sky above to lull him to sleep . lisa rinzler's radiant cinematography and the beautiful sets are likely to provide viewers' most vivid memories of three seasons . the film opens strikingly with dark , thin boats cutting through waters filled with lily pads and lotus blossoms . the light casts a golden glow on the placid waters , creating a scene that monet would have loved to capture on canvas . the director , who is a master at staging , pays careful attention to the small details . listen and watch the old electric fan as it slices through the heavy moist air of one of vietnam's stifling heat waves . three seasons floats like a lotus blossom on still waters and is an exquisite treat for those willing to venture just a little outside of the traditional motion picture format . the film's sparse dialog is in vietnamese with english subtitles . it is rated pg-13 for brief sexuality and mature themes and would be fine for kids around 12 and up . 
it was just for a moment . okay , maybe two . you looked away or you stepped away , and now the most important thing in your entire life is gone . your child was right there . from that now empty space there screams a silent cry . it's every parent's worst nightmare , and , as we all know , it happens to us all . most parents can tell just such a story . i remember being on a payphone when my son was three . luckily , my utter devastation lasted for just a few , unbearably long seconds , as he had just scooted a few feet away so that a corner hid his body . he was never aware that he was missing , but my heart almost stopped . it's natural to be upset with both vincent and beth , but one is too young to have been given such responsibility and the other makes a momentary bad judgement , as we all do . although the press kit says that the cast was administered an " anti-sentimental " pill every day , the story will reduce you to tears . is there any material more ripe to elicit strong emotions than that of a lost child ? as directed by ulu grosbard and adapted for the screen by stephen schiff , the movie is at its best and most convincing in the tear-jerking first act . two characters play rock of gibraltar roles . treat williams , as beth's husband pat , is so unflappable that he will likely begin to grate on your nerves . " first thing i want to tell you -- this isn't anybody's fault , " which is exactly what beth will never believe . the strength of the movie comes from the impressive power of michelle pfeiffer's performance . she displays a highly nuanced range of emotions from depression , despondence and guilt to denial , withdrawal , and anger . if she doesn't fill your tear ducts at some point in the film , see your doctor and have them checked . this half isn't nearly as well developed as the consistent and logical first half . the cast , other than pfeiffer and goldberg , is hit and miss , and the direction works only sporadically . one minute the movie is completely engrossing , and the next the characters are inconsistent and out of character with vincent , played by jonathan jackson , being the worst . when his brother is located , for example , he doesn't show one iota of interest , something that is very hard to buy , even given his repressed guilt . the screenwriter , having painted himself into a cinematic corner , leaves himself several ending options , but none of them are satisfactory . reportedly , pfeiffer wanted a different ending , which they filmed but decided not to use . the whole last act slowly grinds to a halt almost destroying the emotional investment we made in the beginning . the result is a moving motion picture , but one that leave viewers conflicted . parts work so well and others just are not set up properly . and then there is that ending , which isn't bad but isn't particularly satisfactory either . it is rated pg-13 for some profanity and mature themes and would be fine for teenagers . 
in forces of nature , sandra bullock's fans , who have had to watch her talents wasted in mediocre films ( practical magic and hope floats ) and downright stinkers ( two if by sea ) , finally have a film of hers again to cheer about . bullock , tapping her vast reservoir of charm and confidence , gives her best performance since speed . in what is clearly a romantic takeoff on planes , trains & automobiles , the movie's script by marc lawrence is as intelligently funny as it is good-spirited , and it has just enough of a serious underbelly to move your head as well your heart . second-time director bronwen hughes ( harriet the spy ) has a perfect sense of comedic timing as well as the ability to make the mundane seem magical . " do you want to be on your deathbed saying 'i played by the rules' or 'i lived' ? " bullock , who has never been more likeable than in forces of nature , charms ben as well as the audience , but , being a loyal kind of guy , ben resists the temptation as long as possible . affleck , with his boyish grin , is a perfect match for bullock , and their chemistry is simply adorable . among the movie's sight gags is a chintzy honeymoon suite they end up in . even the bathroom door , which should provide a safe barrier , will not close . the picture is gorgeous , thanks to elliot davis's stunning cinematography and lester cohen's brightly colored sets , full of dramatic shades of green accentuated by lavish , contrasting colors . among the many memorable scenes are those featuring the forces of nature . never have hurricanes or hailstorms looked so mystical and inviting . the leading edge of the hurricane , for example , causes colorful strips of paper to swirl around the cast like a multicolored snowstorm . in a story that revels in chaos and ambiguity , the final resolution wraps things up way too neatly and quickly . the story's freshness goes out the window as the writer seems in a hurry to close off all the loose ends and take a more typical hollywood approach . it is rated pg-13 for sensuality , some profanity and a brief dope smoking scene and would be fine for kids around 11 and up . 
how would you feel if " usa today " took at a poll , and 71% of america felt you weren't good enough for your lover ? it happens to poor shari in ron howard's funny new comedy , edtv . she feels pretty awful , as you might imagine , but her boyfriend , ed , tries to cheer her up by reassuring her of his affection for her . in a lookalike role as ed's obnoxious , extroverted brother ray , woody harrelson gets to ham it up , but jenna elfman , as shari , upstages both of them . elfman provides the sweet center of howard's cinematic bon-bon , and her role is the closest that howard comes to creating a sympathetic character . most of the roles are played for pure comedy without feeling the need to overlay them with any pretense at deeper meanings . the best part of the film is the bright and accessible script by the comedic writing team of michel poulette and lowell ganz , who collaborated before with howard on the enormously successful splash and parenthood . " people would rather watch soil . " her solution is a 24-hour cable show featuring a single man , sort of a real-time version of the pbs series about the lou family from the1970s . ed's debut is anything but auspicious . when a sleepy ed finally gets up enough energy to fix himself some pop tarts , whitaker sarcastically calls it an action sequence . filled with incredibly boring minutia -- ed's lack of skill as a toe nail clipper , for example -- the show looks like it may not last the week , if that far . " you know how i know i'm right ? " he tells cynthia in the parking lot as they stand beside their respective cars . " because i'm driving the big car , and you're driving the little one . " ed becomes such an enormous celebrity -- " he's a spice girl . to ground this notoriety , shari plays a sweet ups driver , who hates the publicity as much as ed laps it up . even talk shows get in the act . " it's its own virtue . " the mystery in the story is whether ed will ever be able to quit , and , if so , how ? an even bigger one is whether the writers will be able to do it in a way that audiences feel satisfying . suffice it to say that the ending undoubtedly passed all of the test screenings with flying colors . with ron howard as the director , you can be sure that you'll leave with a satisfied smile on your face . so then we have that one final question . how does this movie differ from the truman show ? edtv never tries to be anything more than a diverting little comedy . the truman show aimed much higher and succeeded . it was funny and insightful with very serious themes whereas edtv just wants to entertain you . both achieve their goals . it is rated pg-13 for mature themes and some profanity and would be fine for kids around 11 and up . 
go by doug liman , the director of swingers , is three fast-paced black comedies for the price of one with each fascinating enough to stand on its own . with shades of pulp fiction , very bad things and lock , stock & 2 smoking barrels , the movie's hip dialog by john august leaves few dull moments . it's proudly crude and vulgar and full of twists as each group's plans goes horribly awry . the director manages to stage the car chases there in ways that seem fresh , no small feat for such an overused part of the action drama repertoire . the camerawork is as energetic as the story itself , and the sets are suitably eclectic with ronna's car and all of its christmas lights being one of the best . although most of the movie's gifts are comedic , it does provide some practical guidance for choosing your next car . if you're anticipating the need to transport dead bodies , a miata is not the car for you . it is rated r for drug usage , nudity , sex , profanity and violence and would be acceptable for older teenagers . 
documentaries work best when they challenge your assumptions and make you think . dutch director johan van der keuken's i ( heart ) $ is a provocative film with an obviously anti-capitalist agenda . the film is mesmerizing because it keeps you on your toes . sandwiched between reasonable arguments are a host of illogical ones and " facts , " which are clearly anything but . made in 1986 and rarely shown in this country , the story is structured as a series of interviews with people , rich and poor . this first segment implants in our subconscious that people make money mainly to manipulate those less fortunate . although it isn't clear , since the film doesn't contain any chapter headings , the next sequence is set in new york city . at first , as we drive by buildings in ruins , we think we are passing through a war zone . this continues the theme of the rich exploiting the poor , and this time it suggests that they do it illegally without ever being caught . the third sequence has an american banker explaining his economic theories . the only benefit of having money that he can think of is to use it to make more money . moreover factory utilization is at an all time low , and people are investing in sexy new technologies rather than basic ones like steel . the banker argues persuasively and is unchallenged by the sympathetic interviewer , but on closer examination , you realize what absolute balderdash it all is , contrast , for example , the stagnation of the 1970s with the boom of the 1980s and 1990s . rather than complaining that the question contains a false assumption , the executive tries to answer it as politely as he can . the exasperating editing and cinematography are the movie's weakest links . long sequences of little value go on long past the time when their points have been made . the camera is sometimes pointed at the strangest places . during one interview we have a long sequences in which all we see is a curtain . we also get lots of close-ups of flowerbeds -- purpose unknown . this visual has absolutely nothing whatsoever to do with the story . adroitly and seductively presented , the film is fascinating , albeit perhaps not for the reasons the filmmaker intended . i ( heart ) $ runs too long at 2 : 25 . it is not rated but might be pg-13 for brief , partial nudity and would be fine for kids old enough to be interested , which probably means teenagers . 
the paper's owner , played with noisy bluster by garry marshall , fires people if they don't deliver . as directed by raja gosnell and written by abby kohn and marc silverstein , the story charms us with its intelligent humor . the comedic dialog works along with the physical comedy , and they even manage to make the clich ? d sex education class scene funny again . the beauty of barrymore's performance is in how bad she's willing to let herself look . as a copy editor , she wears some of the dowdiest dresses possible and is made up like a 25-year-old trying to look twice her age for some amateur play . in the frequent flashbacks to her old high school , we see how bad it was for the klutzy but smart josie and how awful barrymore is willing to appear . with braces , a pockmarked and pudgy face and tacky clothing , she looks so pathetic that it's easy to empathize with her -- she looks like the girl that no one would ask for a date . although the story has nary a serious moment , there is plenty of social commentary just below the surface . barrymore shows us parts of her acting ability that we've not seen before . basically , barrymore just lets it all hang out , while delivering a real crowd-pleasing performance throughout this scene and all the rest of the movie . some of the costumes worn using josie's theme are really inspired , none more so than that of her brother . the film's ending is so hokey that it becomes almost a parody , but barrymore's innocent charisma gives its such grace that it becomes a perfect cap to a precious movie . it is rated pg-13 for sexual humor and some profanity and would be fine for kids around 12 and up . 
writer and director david cronenberg enjoys pushing the edge of the envelope . some of his movies , like crash about people who stage auto accidents for sexual arousal , are stylish misses , and others , like existenz about a virtual reality game made solely of biological components , are mesmerizing . the company introducing the game has the building under such tight control that metal detectors screen all entrants . the story's success stems from the concept of the system itself and from the intricate world built around it . the game pod looks like some bodily organs covered with a rubbery outer substance . to connect to the game pod you must have a bioport . a bioport is " just " a hole in your spine in which you attach an umbilical cord-like device that runs to the game pod . just like we have places in the mall to do ear piercing , they have licensed establishments to puncture your spine . ( as you might guess , this being a cronenberg film , one of the few sexual scenes will involve a tongue and a bioport . ) ted doesn't like this idea at all . " i have this phobia about having my body penetrated surgically , " he tells allegra . " you know what i mean ? " if you're squeamish about gore and goo , existenz probably isn't the film for you . the movie becomes a crazy mixed up world like a " twilight zone " episode about a game show on the " surgery channel . " there are wild jokes about how the characters in the game have underwritten roles and are played with bad accents by poorly cast actors . the film , with its steel-gray blue cinematography and its creepy music , never fails to hold your attention . this is all true and is what makes the movie so fascinating to observe . " there is some weird reality effect happening here , " allegra says . " i'm not sure if i get it . " and the story is such a mind trip that most of the audience will be equally and pleasantly confused as well . " i don't know , " he says honestly . " i find this disgusting , but i can't help myself . " my sentiments exactly . and could you please bring on the next course . it is rated r for violence , gore , profanity and sexuality and would be fine for teenagers . 
so what does it take to make a movie so bad that it's good ? how far over the top does a picture have to go to become hilariously horrible ? what does a b movie have to do to make sure that audiences realize that the filmmaker is winking at them from behind the camera ? meng-hwa ho's unabashedly hokey mighty peking man knows all of these answers . the 1977 film is about to be re-released by quentin tarantino's rolling thunder pictures in " hopes of jump-starting the recently dormant but still vital midnight movie tradition . " not only is it a perfect midnight movie , it's also one of the few foreign films that work well dubbed . dubbing usually makes actors look silly , but here it just makes already outlandish performances seem even more so . among the picture's delights are its crude special effects . the man in the ape suit gets to crush small villages that are made of such simple materials that you can create the same effects in the comfort of your own home . the joys of the movie , however , come more from the actors than the gorilla . does this make any sense and does it have anything to do with the story ? no and no , but it's stupidly funny . no sense wasting valuable medicine , he reasons . dressed in cheesy , skimpy animal skins , she looks terrific . her bikini outfit has only one shoulder strap , which makes her running scenes sensually humorous since her top is unable to fully serve its intended purpose . and did i mention the python that bites samantha's thigh just south of her private parts ? but it is the ape's ingenuity that saves her . this long sequence is choreographed to the dramatic ending of shostakovich's fifth symphony , a piece of classical music as over-the-top as the story itself . as the french horns blare , the cymbals crash and the violins make loud discordant sounds , the ape fights his last battle . you should count yourself lucky if your life ends with such a climactic flourish . mighty peking man runs a bit long , even at just 1 : 30 . it was rated pg when released in 1977 before the introduction of the pg-13 rating , which it would undoubtedly get today . the film contains sexuality , brief nudity and comic violence and would be fine for kids 11 or 12 and up . 
the most popular domestic film in australia when it was released in 1997 , the movie has finally reached the american shores with a nationwide release . australian comedy tends to be full of good natured , self-deprecating humor , and the castle is firmly in that genre . a broad parody without a pretentious bone in its body , the movie stays on target from beginning to end . their jokes aren't anywhere near earth-shakingly funny , but few miss their mark . the show is almost guaranteed to keep a smile on your face ( and a sappy song in your heart . ) so what , other than his family , is the source of darryl's happiness ? first , it is " worth almost as much as he paid for it . " their house , being right next to the airport runway , could not be more convenient for traveling -- not that they've ever even left the county . when there's ice cream for dessert , he's sure she did something special to make it taste so wonderful . these many mealtime sequences work so well because the people are so genuine that the movie plays like a quirky documentary with shades of the funniest documentary in years , hands on a hardbody they're all good , grown kids , even wayne . the last act takes some predicable twists before arriving at its mandatory happy ending . the fast-paced story has enough sweet humor to keep our interest , and the filmmaker makes sure to end the picture quickly so there is no danger of its overstaying its welcome . this light-hearted entertainment is the type of movie that you can call cute without any tinge of sarcasm . if you're in the mood for cute , then this is your movie . it is rated r for some profanity and would be fine for teenagers . 
his unique and magical art form is something well worth preserving . set in china in the 1930s , the film has a strong sense of place . the narrow alleyways give way to colorful houses encrusted in meandering bundles of mystical fog . the basic food staples at the market seems so real that you'll begin to smell them . one of the most satisfying , yet most unusual , aspects of the production is the music . in this very chinese film , jiping zhao's richly melancholic music sounds reminiscent of some of the great american movie music of the 1950s , especially on the waterfront . sometimes , it was orphans trying to offer themselves up in return for a reliable source of food . and sometimes , it was just a crook making a nefarious living . in a performance that avoids any hint of cloyingness , zhou ren-ying plays the smart and resourceful doggie . the two leads deliver exquisite performances and demonstrate genuine chemistry between each other . it is easy to care as much for them as they do for one another . there's only one thing amiss with doggie . you guessed it . although you think you'll figure out how grandpa comes upon this fact , you haven't got a chance in a million . minglun wei's charming screenplay pulls the solution out of left field , but it manages to make sense in context . da-yuan mu's intimate cinematography works best in its small moments of revealing honesty . it is most spectacular , however , in the more dramatic ones as in the movie's beginning sequence , in which a dragon is illuminated with sparks like a million fireflies and shaded in the ensuing clouds of smoke . the director has a gift for making small things special . grandpa has a pet monkey that's no baboon . the animal is the most consistently serious character in the movie , and he takes good care of his master . no dog has ever been more loyal . if they ever want to remake lassie with a monkey , this is the one to get . this simple tale , well told , has its share of tragedies . your heart will be in every one of them , but you'll never feel manipulated or cheated . a small movie worth seeking out and savoring . the film is in mandarin with english subtitles . it is not rated but would probably be pg for thematic elements , brief nudity and a couple of mild profanities . the picture would be fine for any kid old enough to be interested . 
let's cut to the chase and answer the second most important question in every moviegoer's mind . but , the phantom menace is a visually audacious triumph whose look far surpasses the first three . a thoroughly entertaining motion picture , it is a pg-rated treat for the entire family . this brings me to the most asked question , how do you snag some early tickets to the most widely anticipated film since gone with the wind ? to this cinematic conundrum , this review will offer no guidance . written and directed by george lucas , the movie works best when it's at its busiest . as armies of computer-generated figures war with each other , the movie infuses the audience with a visceral excitement that's palpable . your adrenaline will pump as if you personally are taking on those cleverly designed robotic soldiers of the future . if the look and the impressive sound are the picture's high points , the charisma-challenged characters are its low points . the uninspired casting features some well-known actors who seem oddly out of place and some new actors who don't . there isn't a han solo class character to be found anywhere on this mission . harrison ford , with his macho swagger and his humorous energy and charm , is sadly missed . no one with his abilities is found anywhere in this cast . if some are to the manor born , ford's natural home is in a space opera series like star wars or an old-fashioned adventure anthology like indiana jones . giving restrained and wooden performances , these fine actors look like they feel awkward and somehow slightly embarrassed in their roles . i expected them to warm up to their characters , but they never did . both act way below their potential . with all looks and no menace , darth maul's no darth vader , not even close . he's more like a video game opponent who's waiting to be sliced and diced . this reminded me of the scene from spinal tap , in which they claim that their band is the best because the volume on their amplifier goes to 11 rather 10 like the other bands' amplifiers do . much has already been written about the latter , with people divided between those who find jake lloyd's performance endearing and those who think it's lifeless . with his confident charm he is the one of the best reasons to get excited about the future episodes . the movie's most exhilarating scene comes in a big pod racing extravaganza that's lifted straight out of ben hur . the technological tour de force crowd scenes alone are worth the price of admission . a two-headed race announcer supplies the humor in a picture that is sadly bereft of much comedy . the lovable r2-d2 ( kenny baker ) and c-3po ( anthony daniels ) are back , but they aren't allocated anywhere near the screen time that they deserve -- a waste of one of moviedom's best comedy duos . the dialog has classic star wars lingo . ( " be wary , i feel a disturbance in the force , " is one of the many canonical lines . ) the retreads are fun , but what is missing are many memorable new lines . john williams's wonderfully dramatic music draws heavily on his previous work for the series yet still manages to be fresh . gavin bocquet's lavish sets are visually enthralling with the queen's large italian renaissance palace with its massive marble columns being among the handsomest . but the thin and sometimes confusing plot is all just a backdrop for the action . the middle section of the movie gets bogged down with the machinations of senate bureaucrats squabbling over issues ranging from taxes to trade to leadership . sometimes , you may feel like screaming at the screen , " all right already , let's get back to the action . " if we want to hear about bickering politicians , we can read the newspaper . so is the phantom menace a disappointment ? a little . the first three movies were such a huge success and built such a loyal following of fans ; the hype that ensued was to be expected . with such enormous hype comes an inevitable disappointment . but is the movie one that you wouldn't want to miss ? absolutely . see it on the largest screen you can find and with the best sound possible . this is a big event . don't miss it . and don't even consider waiting until it comes out on video . star wars episode i - the phantom menace runs 2 : 11 . it is rated pg for some sci-fi violence and would be fine for all ages . my son jeffrey , age 10 , thought it was almost better than the first 3 and gave it * * * * . he went on and on about the things he liked , including the music , the relationships , the figures and the action . he couldn't think of anything in the movie he didn't like . 